platform_versioned_docs/version-24.1/seqerakit/templates.mdx, before:

---
title: "Templates"
description: "seqerakit YAML configuration file templates and instructions"
date: "8 Nov 2024"
tags: [seqerakit, cli, automation, yaml, configuration]
toc_max_heading_level: 4
---

import CodeBlock from '@theme/CodeBlock';
import Organizations from '!!raw-loader!./templates/organizations.yml';
import Members from '!!raw-loader!./templates/members.yml';
import Workspaces from '!!raw-loader!./templates/workspaces.yml';
import Teams from '!!raw-loader!./templates/teams.yml';
import Participants from '!!raw-loader!./templates/participants.yml';
import ComputeEnvironments from '!!raw-loader!./templates/compute-envs.yml';
import Pipelines from '!!raw-loader!./templates/pipelines.yml';
import Credentials from '!!raw-loader!./templates/credentials.yml';
import Datasets from '!!raw-loader!./templates/datasets.yml';
import Labels from '!!raw-loader!./templates/labels.yml';
import Launch from '!!raw-loader!./templates/launch.yml';
import Secrets from '!!raw-loader!./templates/secrets.yml';
import Actions from '!!raw-loader!./templates/actions.yml';

Customize YAML configuration templates to use in seqerakit commands to create, update, or delete Seqera resources. Create or delete multiple resources with a single seqerakit command by combining them into a single configuration file.

To use the templates on this page:
1. Copy the template text or download the YML files you need. 
1. Edit the values to specify your resource details, and save as a YML file.
1. Specify the YML template file in your seqerakit commands: 
    - To create the resources specified in the file:
    ```console 
    seqerakit /path/to/file.yml
    ```
    - To delete the existing resources specified in the file:
    ```console 
    seqerakit /path/to/file.yml --delete
    ```

:::info 
See [Specify targets](./commands.mdx#specify-targets) to create or delete only selected resources from configuration templates that contain multiple resource entries. 
::: 

### Administration

Manage organizations, organization members, workspaces, teams, and participants. 

#### Organizations

Add or delete organizations. 

<CodeBlock language="yaml">
{Organizations}
</CodeBlock>

[Download organizations.yml](./templates/organizations.yml)

#### Members

Add or delete organization members. 

<CodeBlock language="yaml">
{Members}
</CodeBlock>

[Download members.yml](./templates/members.yml)

#### Workspaces 

Add or delete workspaces. 

<CodeBlock language="yaml">
{Workspaces}
</CodeBlock>

[Download workspaces.yml](./templates/workspaces.yml)

#### Teams 

Add or delete teams. 

<CodeBlock language="yaml">
{Teams}
</CodeBlock>

[Download teams.yml](./templates/teams.yml)

#### Participants 

Add or delete participants in workspaces and teams. 

<CodeBlock language="yaml">
{Participants}
</CodeBlock>

[Download participants.yml](./templates/participants.yml)

### Credentials

Add or delete compute environment, Git, and container registry credentials in workspaces.

<CodeBlock language="yaml">
{Credentials}
</CodeBlock>

[Download credentials.yml](./templates/credentials.yml)

### Compute environments 

Add or delete compute environments. 

<CodeBlock language="yaml">
{ComputeEnvironments}
</CodeBlock>

[Download compute-envs.yml](./templates/compute-envs.yml)

### Pipelines 

Add or delete pipelines in workspace Launchpads. 

<CodeBlock language="yaml">
{Pipelines}
</CodeBlock>

[Download pipelines.yml](./templates/pipelines.yml)

### Launch

Launch a Nextflow pipeline.

<CodeBlock language="yaml">
{Launch}
</CodeBlock>

[Download launch.yml](./templates/launch.yml)

### Datasets

Add or delete workspace datasets for pipeline input data.

<CodeBlock language="yaml">
{Datasets}
</CodeBlock>

[Download datasets.yml](./templates/datasets.yml)

### Labels

Add or delete labels and resource labels to apply to workspace compute environments, pipelines, and runs.

<CodeBlock language="yaml">
{Labels}
</CodeBlock>

[Download labels.yml](./templates/labels.yml)

### Secrets

Add or delete user and workspace secrets.

<CodeBlock language="yaml">
{Secrets}
</CodeBlock>

[Download secrets.yml](./templates/secrets.yml)

### Actions

Add or delete pipeline actions.

<CodeBlock language="yaml">
{Actions}
</CodeBlock>

[Download actions.yml](./templates/actions.yml)

Commit message:

Clean YAML page, add e2e template

platform_versioned_docs/version-24.1/seqerakit/templates.mdx, after:

---
title: "Templates"
description: "seqerakit YAML configuration file templates and instructions"
date: "8 Nov 2024"
tags: [seqerakit, cli, automation, yaml, configuration]
toc_max_heading_level: 4
---

import CodeBlock from '@theme/CodeBlock';
import Organizations from '!!raw-loader!./templates/organizations.yml';
import Members from '!!raw-loader!./templates/members.yml';
import Workspaces from '!!raw-loader!./templates/workspaces.yml';
import Teams from '!!raw-loader!./templates/teams.yml';
import Participants from '!!raw-loader!./templates/participants.yml';
import ComputeEnvironments from '!!raw-loader!./templates/compute-envs.yml';
import Pipelines from '!!raw-loader!./templates/pipelines.yml';
import Credentials from '!!raw-loader!./templates/credentials.yml';
import Datasets from '!!raw-loader!./templates/datasets.yml';
import Labels from '!!raw-loader!./templates/labels.yml';
import Launch from '!!raw-loader!./templates/launch.yml';
import Secrets from '!!raw-loader!./templates/secrets.yml';
import Actions from '!!raw-loader!./templates/actions.yml';
import EndToEnd from '!!raw-loader!./templates/seqerakit-e2e.yml';

Customize YAML configuration templates to use in seqerakit commands to create, update, or delete Seqera resources. Create or delete multiple resources with a single seqerakit command by combining them into a single configuration file.

To use the templates on this page:
1. Copy the template text or download the YML files you need. 
1. Edit the values to specify your resource details, and save as a YML file.
1. Specify the YML template file in your seqerakit commands: 
    - To create the resources specified in the file:
    ```console 
    seqerakit /path/to/file.yml
    ```
    - To delete the existing resources specified in the file:
    ```console 
    seqerakit /path/to/file.yml --delete
    ```

:::info 
See [Specify targets](./commands.mdx#specify-targets) to create or delete only selected resources from configuration templates that contain multiple resource entries. 
::: 

### End-to-end example

A template to create the follwing resources:

- An organization
- A workspace 
- A team
- Participants
- Credentials
- Secrets 
- Compute environments
- Datasets 
- Pipelines 

The templates also contains `launch` entries to launch saved pipelines. 

<CodeBlock language="yaml">
{EndToEnd}
</CodeBlock>

[Download seqerakit-e2e.yml](./templates/seqerakit-e2e.yml)

### Administration

Manage organizations, organization members, workspaces, teams, and participants. 

#### Organizations

Add or delete organizations. 

<CodeBlock language="yaml">
{Organizations}
</CodeBlock>

[Download organizations.yml](./templates/organizations.yml)

#### Members

Add or delete organization members. 

<CodeBlock language="yaml">
{Members}
</CodeBlock>

[Download members.yml](./templates/members.yml)

#### Workspaces 

Add or delete workspaces. 

<CodeBlock language="yaml">
{Workspaces}
</CodeBlock>

[Download workspaces.yml](./templates/workspaces.yml)

#### Teams 

Add or delete teams. 

<CodeBlock language="yaml">
{Teams}
</CodeBlock>

[Download teams.yml](./templates/teams.yml)

#### Participants 

Add or delete participants in workspaces and teams. 

<CodeBlock language="yaml">
{Participants}
</CodeBlock>

[Download participants.yml](./templates/participants.yml)

### Credentials

Add or delete compute environment, Git, and container registry credentials in workspaces.

<CodeBlock language="yaml">
{Credentials}
</CodeBlock>

[Download credentials.yml](./templates/credentials.yml)

### Compute environments 

Add or delete compute environments. 

<CodeBlock language="yaml">
{ComputeEnvironments}
</CodeBlock>

[Download compute-envs.yml](./templates/compute-envs.yml)

### Pipelines 

Add or delete pipelines in workspace Launchpads. 

<CodeBlock language="yaml">
{Pipelines}
</CodeBlock>

[Download pipelines.yml](./templates/pipelines.yml)

### Launch

Launch a Nextflow pipeline.

<CodeBlock language="yaml">
{Launch}
</CodeBlock>

[Download launch.yml](./templates/launch.yml)

### Datasets

Add or delete workspace datasets for pipeline input data.

<CodeBlock language="yaml">
{Datasets}
</CodeBlock>

[Download datasets.yml](./templates/datasets.yml)

### Labels

Add or delete labels and resource labels to apply to workspace compute environments, pipelines, and runs.

<CodeBlock language="yaml">
{Labels}
</CodeBlock>

[Download labels.yml](./templates/labels.yml)

### Secrets

Add or delete user and workspace secrets.

<CodeBlock language="yaml">
{Secrets}
</CodeBlock>

[Download secrets.yml](./templates/secrets.yml)

### Actions

Add or delete pipeline actions.

<CodeBlock language="yaml">
{Actions}
</CodeBlock>

[Download actions.yml](./templates/actions.yml)
