fusion_docs/guide.mdx, before:

---
title: User guide
---

# User guide

Fusion is a virtual, lightweight, distributed file system designed to optimise the data access of Nextflow data pipelines.

Fusion enables seamless filesystem I/O to cloud object stores via a standard POSIX interface resulting in simpler
pipeline logic and faster, more efficient pipeline execution.

## Getting started

Fusion smoothly integrates with Nextflow and does not require any installation or change in pipeline code.
It only requires to use of container runtime or a container computing service such as Kubernetes, AWS Batch and
Google Cloud Batch.

:::note

    This feature requires Nextflow ``22.10.0`` or later.
:::

### Nextflow installation

If you have already installed Nextflow, update to the latest version using this command::

```bash
nextflow -self-update
```

If you don't have Nextflow already installed, install it with the command below::

```bash
curl get.nextflow.io | bash
```

### Fusion configuration

To enable Fusion in your Nextflow pipeline add the following snippet to your `nextflow.config` file::

```groovy
fusion.enabled = true
wave.enabled = true
tower.accessToken = '<your access token>'
```

:::tip

    The use of the Tower access token is not mandatory, however, it's required to enable access to private repositories
    and it allows higher service rate limits compared to anonymous users.
:::

Commit message:

Fusion licensing note
Note for licensing.

Signed-off-by: Justine Geffen <justinegeffen@users.noreply.github.com>

fusion_docs/guide.mdx, after:

---
title: User guide
---

# User guide

Fusion is a virtual, lightweight, distributed file system designed to optimise the data access of Nextflow data pipelines.

Fusion enables seamless filesystem I/O to cloud object stores via a standard POSIX interface resulting in simpler pipeline logic and faster, more efficient pipeline execution.

:::note
Fusion is licensed by Seqera and can be used in Seqera Platform or integrated only with Nextflow.
:::

## Getting started

Fusion smoothly integrates with Nextflow and does not require any installation or change in pipeline code. It only requires to use of container runtime or a container computing service such as Kubernetes, AWS Batch and Google Cloud Batch.

:::note

    This feature requires Nextflow ``22.10.0`` or later.
:::

### Nextflow installation

If you have already installed Nextflow, update to the latest version using this command::

```bash
nextflow -self-update
```

If you don't have Nextflow already installed, install it with the command below::

```bash
curl get.nextflow.io | bash
```

### Fusion configuration

To enable Fusion in your Nextflow pipeline add the following snippet to your `nextflow.config` file::

```groovy
fusion.enabled = true
wave.enabled = true
tower.accessToken = '<your access token>'
```

:::tip

    The use of the Tower access token is not mandatory, however, it's required to enable access to private repositories
    and it allows higher service rate limits compared to anonymous users.
:::
