fusion_docs/guide/snapshots.mdx, before:

---
title: Fusion Snapshots for AWS Batch
description: "Overview of the Fusion Snapshots feature for AWS Batch"
date: "23 Aug 2024"
tags: [fusion, storage, compute, file system, snapshot]
---

:::info
Fusion Snapshots is in private preview. [Contact Seqera](https://support.seqera.io) to request access to this feature. 
:::

Fusion Snapshots enable you to create a checkpoint of a running Nextflow process and restore it on a different machine. Leveraging the Fusion file system, you can move the task between different instances connected to the same S3 bucket.

More specifically, the first use case for this feature is for Seqera Platform users to leverage AWS Spot instances without restarting an entire task from scratch if an instance is terminated. When a Spot instance interruption occurs, the task is restored from the last checkpoint on a new AWS instance, saving time and computational resources.

### Seqera Platform compute environment requirements

Fusion Snapshots v1.0.0 requires the following [Seqera compute environment](https://docs.seqera.io/platform/latest/compute-envs/aws-batch) configuration:

- **Provider**: AWS Batch
- **Pipeline work directory**: An S3 bucket in the same region as the compute environment
- **Enable Wave containers**
- **Enable Fusion v2**
- **Enable fast instance storage**
- **Config mode**: Batch Forge
- **Provisioning model**: Spot 
- **Nextflow config**: Set AWS Batch max spot attempts and the custom Fusion container URL received from Seqera [shown below](#enable-snapshots-via-nextflow-config)
- **Instance types**: See recommended instance sizes below
- **AMI ID**: Amazon Linux 2023 ECS Optimized

### Enable Snapshots via Nextflow config 

:::note
Fusion Snapshots is a private preview feature that requires setting a custom `fusion.containerConfigUrl`. [Contact Seqera](https://support.seqera.io) to request access to this feature. 
:::

To use Fusion Snapshots in a Seqera AWS Batch compute environment, set the following Nextflow config values in the **Nextflow config** field under **Staging options**: 

```java
aws.batch.maxSpotAttempts= 5
fusion.containerConfigUrl = '<CUSTOM_CONTAINER_URL>'
```

`maxSpotAttempts` must be a value higher than `0`.

### Recommended instance sizes

Fusion Snapshots require EC2 Spot instances with enough memory and network bandwidth to dump the cache of task intermediate files to S3 storage before AWS terminates an instance. When AWS issues a Spot instance reclamation notice, Fusion has two minutes to complete this transfer. 

It is recommended to select instances with guaranteed network bandwidth (as opposed to bandwidth _up to_ a maximum value) and maintain a ratio of 5:1 between memory and network bandwidth. 

For example, taking into account the bandwidth and compute necessary to create a snapshot, a  `c6i.8xlarge` instance with 64 GIB memory and a guaranteed network bandwidth of 12.5 Gbps can take approximately 70 seconds to dump the entire instance to S3 storage before instance reclamation occurs. 

### Amazon Linux 2023 ECS-optimized AMI 

To obtain sufficient performance, Fusion Snapshots require instances with Amazon Linux 2023 (which ships with Linux Kernel 6.1), with an ECS Container-optimized AMI. 

To find the recommended AL2023 ECS-optimized AMI for your region, run the following (replace `eu-central-1` with your AWS region):

```bash 
export REGION=eu-central-1
aws ssm get-parameter --name "/aws/service/ecs/optimized-ami/amazon-linux-2023/recommended" --region $REGION
```

The result for the `eu-central-1` region is similar to the following:

```bash 
{
    "Parameter": {
        "Name": "/aws/service/ecs/optimized-ami/amazon-linux-2023/recommended",
        "Type": "String",
        "Value": "{\"ecs_agent_version\":\"1.88.0\",\"ecs_runtime_version\":\"Docker version 25.0.6\",\"image_id\":\"ami-0281c9a5cd9de63bd\",\"image_name\":\"al2023-ami-ecs-hvm-2023.0.20241115-kernel-6.1-x86_64\",\"image_version\":\"2023.0.20241115\",\"os\":\"Amazon Linux 2023\",\"schema_version\":1,\"source_image_name\":\"al2023-ami-minimal-2023.6.20241111.0-kernel-6.1-x86_64\"}",
        "Version": 61,
        "LastModifiedDate": "2024-11-18T17:08:46.926000+01:00",
        "ARN": "arn:aws:ssm:eu-central-1::parameter/aws/service/ecs/optimized-ami/amazon-linux-2023/recommended",
        "DataType": "text"
    }
```

Note the `image_id` in your result (in this example, `ami-0281c9a5cd9de63bd`). Specify this ID in the **AMI ID** field under **Advanced options** when you create your Seqera compute environment.

Commit message:

Update Fusion Snapshots docs with recommended EC2 instance types and sizing guidance (#488)
* Update snapshots.mdx

* Update fusion_docs/guide/snapshots.mdx

Signed-off-by: Llewellyn vd Berg <113503285+llewellyn-sl@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update fusion_docs/guide/snapshots.mdx

Signed-off-by: Llewellyn vd Berg <113503285+llewellyn-sl@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update snapshots.mdx

Added punctuation to a list.

Signed-off-by: Justine Geffen <justinegeffen@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update snapshots.mdx

Table capitalization

Signed-off-by: Justine Geffen <justinegeffen@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update fusion_docs/guide/snapshots.mdx

Signed-off-by: Justine Geffen <justinegeffen@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update fusion_docs/guide/snapshots.mdx

Signed-off-by: Justine Geffen <justinegeffen@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update sidebar.json

* Update sidebar.json

* Update snapshots.mdx

* Update snapshots.mdx

* Update snapshots.mdx

* Improve Enterprise AL2023 note

* Minor capitalization and note fix

---------

Signed-off-by: Llewellyn vd Berg <113503285+llewellyn-sl@users.noreply.github.com>
Signed-off-by: Justine Geffen <justinegeffen@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Justine Geffen <justinegeffen@users.noreply.github.com>

fusion_docs/guide/snapshots.mdx, after:

---
title: Fusion Snapshots for AWS Batch
description: "Overview of the Fusion Snapshots feature for AWS Batch"
date: "23 Aug 2024"
tags: [fusion, storage, compute, file system, snapshot]
---

:::info
Fusion Snapshots is in private preview. [Contact Seqera](https://support.seqera.io) to request access to this feature. 
:::

Fusion Snapshots enable you to create a checkpoint of a running Nextflow process and restore it on a different machine. Leveraging the Fusion file system, you can move the task between different instances connected to the same S3 bucket.

More specifically, the first use case for this feature is for Seqera Platform users to leverage AWS Spot instances without restarting an entire task from scratch if an instance is terminated. When a Spot instance interruption occurs, the task is restored from the last checkpoint on a new AWS instance, saving time and computational resources.

### Seqera Platform compute environment requirements

Fusion Snapshots v1.0.0 requires the following [Seqera compute environment](https://docs.seqera.io/platform/latest/compute-envs/aws-batch) configuration:

- **Provider**: AWS Batch
- **Pipeline work directory**: An S3 bucket located in the same region as your AWS Batch compute resources
- **Enable Wave containers**
- **Enable Fusion v2**
- **Enable fast instance storage**
- **Config mode**: Batch Forge
- **Provisioning model**: Spot 
- **Nextflow config**: Set AWS Batch max spot attempts and the custom Fusion container URL received from Seqera [shown below](#enable-snapshots-via-nextflow-config)
- **Instance types**: See recommended instance sizes below
- **AMI ID**: Amazon Linux 2023 ECS Optimized

### Enable Snapshots via Nextflow config 

:::note
Fusion Snapshots is a private preview feature that requires setting a custom `fusion.containerConfigUrl`. [Contact Seqera](https://support.seqera.io) to request access to this feature. 
:::

To use Fusion Snapshots in a Seqera AWS Batch compute environment, set the following Nextflow config values in the **Nextflow config** field under **Staging options**: 

```java
aws.batch.maxSpotAttempts= 5
fusion.containerConfigUrl = '<CUSTOM_CONTAINER_URL>'
```

`maxSpotAttempts` must be a value higher than `0`.

### EC2 instance selection guidelines

- Choose EC2 Spot instances with sufficient memory and network bandwidth to dump the cache of task intermediate files to S3 storage before AWS terminates an instance.
- Select instances with guaranteed network bandwidth (not instances with bandwidth "up to" a maximum value).
- Maintain a 5:1 ratio between memory (GiB) and network bandwidth (Gbps).
- Recommended instance families: `c6id`, `r6id`, or `m6id` series instances work optimally with Fusion fast instance storage.

:::info Example
A c6id.8xlarge instance provides 64 GiB memory and 12.5 Gbps guaranteed network bandwidth. This configuration can transfer the entire memory contents to S3 in approximately 70 seconds, well within the 2-minute reclamation window.

Instances with memory:bandwitdth ratios over 5:1 may not complete transfers before termination, potentially resulting in task failures.
:::

#### Recommended instance types

| Instance type  | Memory (GiB) | Network bandwidth (Gbps) | Memory:bandwidth ratio | Est. Snapshot time|
|----------------|--------------|--------------------------|------------------------|-------------------|
| c6id.4xlarge   | 32           | 12.5                     | 2.56:1                 | ~45 seconds       |
| c6id.8xlarge   | 64           | 12.5                     | 5.12:1                 | ~70 seconds       |
| r6id.2xlarge   | 64           | 12.5                     | 5.12:1                 | ~70 seconds       |
| m6id.4xlarge   | 64           | 12.5                     | 5.12:1                 | ~70 seconds       |
| c6id.12xlarge  | 96           | 18.75                    | 5.12:1                 | ~70 seconds       |
| r6id.4xlarge   | 128          | 12.5                     | 10.24:1                | ~105 seconds      |
| m6id.8xlarge   | 128          | 25                       | 5.12:1                 | ~70 seconds       |

### (Seqera Enterprise only) Select an Amazon Linux 2023 ECS-optimized AMI 

To obtain sufficient performance, Fusion Snapshots require instances with Amazon Linux 2023 (which ships with Linux Kernel 6.1), with an ECS Container-optimized AMI. 

:::note
Selecting a custom Amazon Linux 2023 ECS-optimized AMI is only required for compute environments in Seqera Enterprise deployments. Seqera Cloud AWS Batch compute environments use Amazon Linux 2023 AMIs by default. 
:::

To find the recommended AL2023 ECS-optimized AMI for your region, run the following (replace `eu-central-1` with your AWS region):

```bash 
export REGION=eu-central-1
aws ssm get-parameter --name "/aws/service/ecs/optimized-ami/amazon-linux-2023/recommended" --region $REGION
```

The result for the `eu-central-1` region is similar to the following:

```bash 
{
    "Parameter": {
        "Name": "/aws/service/ecs/optimized-ami/amazon-linux-2023/recommended",
        "Type": "String",
        "Value": "{\"ecs_agent_version\":\"1.88.0\",\"ecs_runtime_version\":\"Docker version 25.0.6\",\"image_id\":\"ami-0281c9a5cd9de63bd\",\"image_name\":\"al2023-ami-ecs-hvm-2023.0.20241115-kernel-6.1-x86_64\",\"image_version\":\"2023.0.20241115\",\"os\":\"Amazon Linux 2023\",\"schema_version\":1,\"source_image_name\":\"al2023-ami-minimal-2023.6.20241111.0-kernel-6.1-x86_64\"}",
        "Version": 61,
        "LastModifiedDate": "2024-11-18T17:08:46.926000+01:00",
        "ARN": "arn:aws:ssm:eu-central-1::parameter/aws/service/ecs/optimized-ami/amazon-linux-2023/recommended",
        "DataType": "text"
    }
```

Note the `image_id` in your result (in this example, `ami-0281c9a5cd9de63bd`). Specify this ID in the **AMI ID** field under **Advanced options** when you create your Seqera compute environment.
