platform-enterprise_versioned_docs/version-23.3/data/data-explorer.md, before:

---
title: "Data Explorer"
description: "Using Seqera Data Explorer."
date: "21 Apr 2023"
tags: [data, explorer]
---

With Data Explorer, you can browse and interact with remote data repositories from organization workspaces in Seqera Platform. It supports AWS S3, Azure Blob Storage, and Google Cloud Storage repositories.

:::note
To disable Data Explorer globally for all workspaces and users in your account, set `TOWER_DATA_EXPLORER_ENABLED=false` in your environment variables (default: `true`).

To disable Data Explorer automatic cloud bucket retrieval per workspace in your **Seqera Enterprise** account, specify comma-separated workspace IDs with the `TOWER_DATA_EXPLORER_CLOUD_DISABLED_WORKSPACES` environment variable.
:::

Access the **Data Explorer** tab from any enabled workspace to view and manage all available cloud storage buckets. It is also integrated with the pipeline launch form and run detail pages, which allows you to select input data files and output directories or quickly view the output files of a run.

## Add cloud storage buckets

Data Explorer lists public and private cloud storage buckets. Buckets accessible to your workspace cloud credentials are retrieved automatically; workspace maintainers can also configure buckets manually.

:::note
To disable automatic cloud bucket retrieval per workspace, specify comma-separated workspace IDs using the `TOWER_DATA_EXPLORER_CLOUD_DISABLED_WORKSPACES` environment variable.
:::

- **Retrieve cloud buckets with workspace credentials**

  To list private cloud storage buckets in Data Explorer automatically, add the repository [credentials](../credentials/overview) to your workspace.

- **Configure individual buckets manually**

  Select **Add cloud bucket** from the Data Explorer tab to add individual buckets (or directory paths within buckets). Specify the **Provider**, **Bucket path**, **Name**, **Credentials**, and **Description**, then select **Add**. For public cloud buckets, select **Public** from the **Credentials** drop-down menu.

  :::note
  The **Add cloud bucket** option is only shown to users with sufficient permissions (workspace maintainers or higher).
  :::

## Browse cloud storage buckets

![](./_images/data_explorer.png)

- **View bucket details**

  To view bucket details such as the cloud provider, bucket address, and credentials, select the information icon next to a bucket in the Data Explorer list.

- **Search and filter buckets**

  Search for buckets by name and region (e.g., `region:eu-west-2`) in the search field, and filter by provider.

- **Hide buckets from list view**

  Workspace maintainers can hide buckets from the Data Explorer list view. Select multiple buckets, then select **Hide** in the Data Explorer toolbar. To hide buckets individually, select **Hide** from the options menu of a bucket in the list.

  The Data Explorer list filter defaults to **Only visible**. Select **Only hidden** or **All** from the filtering menu to view hidden buckets in the list. You can **Unhide** a bucket from its options menu in the list view.

- **View bucket contents**

  Select a bucket name from the Data Explorer list to view the contents of that bucket. From the **View cloud bucket** page, you can browse directories and search for objects by name in a particular directory. The file type, size, and path of objects are displayed in columns to the right of the object name. To view bucket details such as the cloud provider, bucket address, and credentials, select the information icon.

- **Preview and download files**

  From the **View cloud bucket** page, you can preview and download files. Select the download icon in the **Actions** column to download a file directly from the list view. Select a file to open a preview window that includes a **Download** button.

  :::note
  Preview is supported for these object types:

  - Text
  - CSV and TSV
  - PDF
  - HTML
  - Images (JPG, PNG, SVG, etc.)

  :::

- **Copy bucket/object paths**

  Select the **Path** of an object on the **View cloud bucket** page to copy its absolute path to the clipboard. Use these object paths to specify input data locations during [pipeline launch](../launch/launchpad), or add them to a [dataset](../data/datasets) for pipeline input.

## Upload files to private buckets

Data Explorer supports file uploads to your private cloud storage buckets. From the **View cloud bucket** page, select **Upload file** to select the files you wish to upload.

:::note
You must configure cross-origin resource sharing (CORS) for your cloud storage provider to allow file uploads from Seqera. CORS configuration differs for each provider.
:::

### AWS S3 CORS configuration

Apply a [CORS configuration](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/ManageCorsUsing.html) to enable file uploads from Seqera to specific S3 buckets. The CORS configuration is a JSON file that defines the origins, headers, and methods allowed for resource sharing requests to a bucket. Follow [these AWS instructions](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/enabling-cors-examples.html) to apply the CORS configuration below to each bucket you wish to enable file uploads for:

**Seqera Cloud S3 CORS configuration**

```json
[
  {
    "AllowedHeaders": ["*"],
    "AllowedMethods": ["PUT", "POST", "DELETE", "GET"],
    "AllowedOrigins": ["https://cloud.seqera.io"],
    "ExposeHeaders": ["ETag"]
  }
]
```

**Seqera Enterprise S3 CORS configuration**

Replace `<your-seqera-instance.url>` with your Seqera Enterprise server URL:

```json
[
  {
    "AllowedHeaders": ["*"],
    "AllowedMethods": ["PUT", "POST", "DELETE", "GET"],
    "AllowedOrigins": ["https://<your-seqera-instance.url>"],
    "ExposeHeaders": ["ETag"]
  }
]
```

### Azure Blob Storage CORS configuration

:::note
CORS configuration in Azure Blob Storage is set at the account level. This means that CORS rules for your account apply to every blob in the account.
:::

Apply a [CORS configuration](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/rest/api/storageservices/cross-origin-resource-sharing--cors--support-for-the-azure-storage-services#enabling-cors-for-azure-storage) to enable file uploads from Seqera to your Azure Blob Storage account.

**Seqera Cloud Azure CORS configuration**

1. From the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com), go to the **Storage account** you wish to configure.
2. Under **Settings** in the left navigation menu, select **Resource sharing (CORS)**.
3. Add a new entry under **Blob service**:

   - **Allowed origins**: `https://cloud.seqera.io`
   - **Allowed methods**: `GET,POST,PUT,DELETE,HEAD`
   - **Allowed headers**: `x-ms-blob-type,content-type`
   - **Exposed headers**: `x-ms-blob-type`

4. Select **Save** to apply the CORS configuration.

**Seqera Enterprise Azure CORS configuration**

1. From the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com), go to the Storage account you wish to configure.
2. Under **Settings** in the left navigation menu, select **Resource sharing (CORS)**.
3. Add a new entry under **Blob service**:

   - **Allowed origins**: `https://<your_seqera_instance_url>`
   - **Allowed methods**: `GET,POST,PUT,DELETE,HEAD`
   - **Allowed headers**: `x-ms-blob-type,content-type`
   - **Exposed headers**: `x-ms-blob-type`

4. Select **Save** to apply the CORS configuration.

### Google Cloud Storage CORS configuration

Apply a [CORS configuration](https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/cross-origin#cors-components) to enable file uploads from Seqera to specific GCS buckets. The CORS configuration is a JSON file that defines the origins, headers, and methods allowed for resource sharing requests to a bucket. Follow [these Google instructions](https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/using-cors#command-line) to apply the CORS configuration below to each bucket you wish to enable file uploads for.

:::note
Google Cloud Storage only supports CORS configuration via gcloud CLI.
:::

**Seqera Cloud GCS CORS configuration**

```json
{
  "origin": ["https://cloud.seqera.io"],
  "method": ["GET", "POST", "PUT", "DELETE", "HEAD"],
  "responseHeader": ["Content-Type", "Content-Range"],
  "maxAgeSeconds": 3600
}
```

**Seqera Enterprise GCS CORS configuration**

```json
{
  "origin": ["https://<your_seqera_instance_url>"],
  "method": ["GET", "POST", "PUT", "DELETE", "HEAD"],
  "responseHeader": ["Content-Type", "Content-Range"],
  "maxAgeSeconds": 3600
}
```

Commit message:

Add information on data explorer custom data link value prop and instructions (#591)
* Add specific information on creating custom data-links

* Add specific information on creating custom data-links

* Revert "Add specific information on creating custom data-links"

This reverts commit f53cf55c03a9c03976d533ab47895a3a4dbd5994.

* Update data-explorer.mdx

Signed-off-by: Justine Geffen <justinegeffen@users.noreply.github.com>

* Apply suggestions from code review

Signed-off-by: Justine Geffen <justinegeffen@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update platform-enterprise_versioned_docs/version-24.1/data/data-explorer.mdx

Signed-off-by: Justine Geffen <justinegeffen@users.noreply.github.com>

* Rename data-explorer.mdx to data-explorer.md

Signed-off-by: Justine Geffen <justinegeffen@users.noreply.github.com>

* Rename data-explorer.mdx to data-explorer.md

Signed-off-by: Justine Geffen <justinegeffen@users.noreply.github.com>

* Rename data-explorer.mdx to data-explorer.md

Signed-off-by: Justine Geffen <justinegeffen@users.noreply.github.com>

* Rename data-explorer.mdx to data-explorer.md

Signed-off-by: Justine Geffen <justinegeffen@users.noreply.github.com>

* Rename data-explorer.mdx to data-explorer.md

Signed-off-by: Justine Geffen <justinegeffen@users.noreply.github.com>

* Rename data-explorer.mdx to data-explorer.md

Signed-off-by: Justine Geffen <justinegeffen@users.noreply.github.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: Justine Geffen <justinegeffen@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Justine Geffen <justinegeffen@users.noreply.github.com>

platform-enterprise_versioned_docs/version-23.3/data/data-explorer.md, after:

---
title: "Data Explorer"
description: "Using Seqera Data Explorer."
date: "21 Apr 2023"
tags: [data, explorer]
---

With Data Explorer, you can browse and interact with remote data repositories from organization workspaces in Seqera Platform. It supports AWS S3, Azure Blob Storage, and Google Cloud Storage repositories.

:::note
To disable Data Explorer globally for all workspaces and users in your account, set `TOWER_DATA_EXPLORER_ENABLED=false` in your environment variables (default: `true`).

To disable Data Explorer automatic cloud bucket retrieval per workspace in your **Seqera Enterprise** account, specify comma-separated workspace IDs with the `TOWER_DATA_EXPLORER_CLOUD_DISABLED_WORKSPACES` environment variable.
:::

Access the **Data Explorer** tab from any enabled workspace to view and manage all available cloud storage buckets. It is also integrated with the pipeline launch form and run detail pages, which allows you to select input data files and output directories or quickly view the output files of a run.

## Add cloud storage buckets

Data Explorer lists public and private cloud storage buckets. Buckets accessible to your workspace cloud credentials are retrieved automatically; workspace maintainers can also configure buckets manually.

:::note
To disable automatic cloud bucket retrieval per workspace, specify comma-separated workspace IDs using the `TOWER_DATA_EXPLORER_CLOUD_DISABLED_WORKSPACES` environment variable.
:::

- **Retrieve cloud buckets with workspace credentials**

  To list private cloud storage buckets in Data Explorer automatically, add the repository [credentials](../credentials/overview) to your workspace.

- **Configure individual buckets manually**

  Select **Add cloud bucket** from the Data Explorer tab to add individual buckets (or directory paths within buckets). Specify the **Provider**, **Bucket path**, **Name**, **Credentials**, and **Description**, then select **Add**. For public cloud buckets, select **Public** from the **Credentials** drop-down menu.

  :::note
  The **Add cloud bucket** option is only shown to users with sufficient permissions (workspace maintainers or higher).
  :::

## Browse cloud storage buckets

![](./_images/data_explorer.png)

- **View bucket details**

  To view bucket details such as the cloud provider, bucket address, and credentials, select the information icon next to a bucket in the Data Explorer list.

- **Search and filter buckets**

  Search for buckets by name and region (e.g., `region:eu-west-2`) in the search field, and filter by provider.

- **Hide buckets from list view**

  Workspace maintainers can hide buckets from the Data Explorer list view. Select multiple buckets, then select **Hide** in the Data Explorer toolbar. To hide buckets individually, select **Hide** from the options menu of a bucket in the list.

  The Data Explorer list filter defaults to **Only visible**. Select **Only hidden** or **All** from the filtering menu to view hidden buckets in the list. You can **Unhide** a bucket from its options menu in the list view.

- **View bucket contents**

  Select a bucket name from the Data Explorer list to view the contents of that bucket. From the **View cloud bucket** page, you can browse directories and search for objects by name in a particular directory. The file type, size, and path of objects are displayed in columns to the right of the object name. To view bucket details such as the cloud provider, bucket address, and credentials, select the information icon.

- **Preview and download files**

  From the **View cloud bucket** page, you can preview and download files. Select the download icon in the **Actions** column to download a file directly from the list view. Select a file to open a preview window that includes a **Download** button.

  :::note
  Preview is supported for these object types:

  - Text
  - CSV and TSV
  - PDF
  - HTML
  - Images (JPG, PNG, SVG, etc.)

  :::

- **Copy bucket/object paths**

  Select the **Path** of an object on the **View cloud bucket** page to copy its absolute path to the clipboard. Use these object paths to specify input data locations during [pipeline launch](../launch/launchpad), or add them to a [dataset](../data/datasets) for pipeline input.

## Isolate view, read, and write permissions to specific cloud storage bucket paths

To isolate pipeline or Studios view, read, and write permissions to a specific **Bucket path**, workspace maintainers can optionally create **custom data-links** by manually configuring an individual bucket plus path to a specific folder/directory. This is supported to any level of the cloud storage bucket path hierarchy, provided it is a folder (also known as a **prefix**). You can optionally choose to **Hide** or **Show** either the root bucket and/or any related custom data-links on demand in Data Explorer using the **Show/Hide** toggle and the **Show cloud buckets** filter options:

- Only visible (default)
- Only hidden
- All

:::note
This customized Data Explorer view will be displayed by default to all workspace users, until the filter is updated or removed by a workspace maintainer.
:::


## Upload files to private buckets

Data Explorer supports file uploads to your private cloud storage buckets. From the **View cloud bucket** page, select **Upload file** to select the files you wish to upload.

:::note
You must configure cross-origin resource sharing (CORS) for your cloud storage provider to allow file uploads from Seqera. CORS configuration differs for each provider.
:::

### AWS S3 CORS configuration

Apply a [CORS configuration](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/ManageCorsUsing.html) to enable file uploads from Seqera to specific S3 buckets. The CORS configuration is a JSON file that defines the origins, headers, and methods allowed for resource sharing requests to a bucket. Follow [these AWS instructions](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/enabling-cors-examples.html) to apply the CORS configuration below to each bucket you wish to enable file uploads for:

**Seqera Cloud S3 CORS configuration**

```json
[
  {
    "AllowedHeaders": ["*"],
    "AllowedMethods": ["PUT", "POST", "DELETE", "GET"],
    "AllowedOrigins": ["https://cloud.seqera.io"],
    "ExposeHeaders": ["ETag"]
  }
]
```

**Seqera Enterprise S3 CORS configuration**

Replace `<your-seqera-instance.url>` with your Seqera Enterprise server URL:

```json
[
  {
    "AllowedHeaders": ["*"],
    "AllowedMethods": ["PUT", "POST", "DELETE", "GET"],
    "AllowedOrigins": ["https://<your-seqera-instance.url>"],
    "ExposeHeaders": ["ETag"]
  }
]
```

### Azure Blob Storage CORS configuration

:::note
CORS configuration in Azure Blob Storage is set at the account level. This means that CORS rules for your account apply to every blob in the account.
:::

Apply a [CORS configuration](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/rest/api/storageservices/cross-origin-resource-sharing--cors--support-for-the-azure-storage-services#enabling-cors-for-azure-storage) to enable file uploads from Seqera to your Azure Blob Storage account.

**Seqera Cloud Azure CORS configuration**

1. From the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com), go to the **Storage account** you wish to configure.
2. Under **Settings** in the left navigation menu, select **Resource sharing (CORS)**.
3. Add a new entry under **Blob service**:

   - **Allowed origins**: `https://cloud.seqera.io`
   - **Allowed methods**: `GET,POST,PUT,DELETE,HEAD`
   - **Allowed headers**: `x-ms-blob-type,content-type`
   - **Exposed headers**: `x-ms-blob-type`

4. Select **Save** to apply the CORS configuration.

**Seqera Enterprise Azure CORS configuration**

1. From the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com), go to the Storage account you wish to configure.
2. Under **Settings** in the left navigation menu, select **Resource sharing (CORS)**.
3. Add a new entry under **Blob service**:

   - **Allowed origins**: `https://<your_seqera_instance_url>`
   - **Allowed methods**: `GET,POST,PUT,DELETE,HEAD`
   - **Allowed headers**: `x-ms-blob-type,content-type`
   - **Exposed headers**: `x-ms-blob-type`

4. Select **Save** to apply the CORS configuration.

### Google Cloud Storage CORS configuration

Apply a [CORS configuration](https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/cross-origin#cors-components) to enable file uploads from Seqera to specific GCS buckets. The CORS configuration is a JSON file that defines the origins, headers, and methods allowed for resource sharing requests to a bucket. Follow [these Google instructions](https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/using-cors#command-line) to apply the CORS configuration below to each bucket you wish to enable file uploads for.

:::note
Google Cloud Storage only supports CORS configuration via gcloud CLI.
:::

**Seqera Cloud GCS CORS configuration**

```json
{
  "origin": ["https://cloud.seqera.io"],
  "method": ["GET", "POST", "PUT", "DELETE", "HEAD"],
  "responseHeader": ["Content-Type", "Content-Range"],
  "maxAgeSeconds": 3600
}
```

**Seqera Enterprise GCS CORS configuration**

```json
{
  "origin": ["https://<your_seqera_instance_url>"],
  "method": ["GET", "POST", "PUT", "DELETE", "HEAD"],
  "responseHeader": ["Content-Type", "Content-Range"],
  "maxAgeSeconds": 3600
}
```
