platform-enterprise_versioned_docs/version-24.2/api/overview.mdx, before:

---
title: "API"
description: "Using the Seqera Platform API."
date: "15 Mar 2024"
tags: [api]
---

import MDXComponents from "@theme-original/MDXComponents";
import Button from "@site/src/components/Button";

The Seqera Platform services API is a programmatic interface for all operations available in the Platform web UI. This allows organizations to integrate Platform seamlessly into existing processes.

### API reference

<p>
  <Button to="https://cloud.seqera.io/openapi/index.html" className="mr-3" blue medium alt>View API reference</Button>
  <Button to="https://cloud.seqera.io/openapi/seqera-api-latest.yml" secondary medium alt>Download API schema</Button>
</p>

The API reference is an interactive list of all API endpoints and includes request and response payload examples to test requests in the browser.

:::info
The API requires authentication with a Platform access token to perform requests.

<Button to="https://cloud.seqera.io/tokens" secondary medium alt>Create an access token</Button>
:::

The API and its interactive reference is built on the OpenAPI standard.
Download the current OpenAPI schema file [here](https://cloud.seqera.io/openapi/seqera-api-latest.yml).

:::tip
For more information on the OpenAPI standard, see [OpenAPI](https://swagger.io/specification/).
:::

:::note
The API uses the [semantic versioning convention](https://semver.org/) (major.minor.patch). If/when we introduce a breaking change (v2+), we will publish guidance on the v1 support schedule and how to traverse the changes.
:::

### Encoding and formatting standards

- The API can be accessed from `https://api.cloud.seqera.io`.
- All API endpoints use HTTPS, and all request and response payloads use [JSON](https://www.json.org/) encoding.
- All timestamps use the [ISO 8601](https://www.iso.org/iso-8601-date-and-time-format.html) date-time standard format: `YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SSZ`.

:::note
From version 23.4, the Platform API is live on `https://api.cloud.seqera.io`. The legacy API `https://api.tower.nf` remains fully operational, so existing API integrations will continue to perform as expected. Deprecation of the legacy API will be communicated well in advance to avoid any breaking changes to your integrations.
:::

### Programmatic API

Both the [Seqera Platform CLI](../cli/overview) and [seqerakit](https://github.com/seqeralabs/seqera-kit) are built on the Platform API and provide a programmatic automation layer for operations.

You can also use tools such as [openapi-python-client](https://github.com/openapi-generators/openapi-python-client) to generate your own programmatic API for a particular language (such as Python) based on the OpenAPI schema. However, we do not guarantee that any OpenAPI client generators will work with the Platform API.

### Authentication

The API requires an authentication token to be specified in each API request using the
[Bearer](https://swagger.io/docs/specification/authentication/bearer-authentication) HTTP header.

Once created, use your access token to authenticate requests to the API via cURL, Postman, or within your code.

<Button to="https://cloud.seqera.io/tokens" secondary medium alt>Create an access token</Button>

:::note
The token is only displayed once when it is created. Store your token in a safe place.
:::

### cURL example

```bash
curl -H "Authorization: Bearer eyJ...YTk0" https://api.cloud.seqera.io/workflow
```

:::info
Your access token must be included in every API call.
:::

### Parameters

Some API `GET` methods will accept standard `query` parameters, which are defined in the documentation. Optional parameters such as page size, number (when available), and file name can be submitted as query parameters. `POST`, `PUT`, and `DELETE` requests require additional parameters to be provided in your request body.

Several head parameters are also accepted, such as `Authorization` for bearer access tokens or `Accept-Version` to indicate the desired API version to use (default version 1):

```bash
curl -H "Authorization: Bearer QH..E5M="
     -H "Accept-Version:1"
     -X POST https://api.cloud.seqera.io/domain/{item_id}?queryString={value}
     -d { params: { "key":"value" } }

```

### Client errors

Two typical standard errors (i.e., response statuses other than `200` or `204`) are returned by the API.

#### Bad Request

The request payload is not properly defined or the query parameters are invalid.

```json
{
  "message": "Unexpected error while processing - Error ID: 54apnFENQxbvCr23JaIjLb"
}
```

#### Forbidden

Your access token is invalid or expired. This response may also imply that the endpoint you are trying to access is not available. Check your request syntax for typos, and confirm that your access token is valid.

```bash
Status: 403 Forbidden
```

### Rate limiting

For all API requests, there is a limit of 20 calls per second, per access token (72000 calls per hour).

Commit message:

Adding more context per Daria's review.

platform-enterprise_versioned_docs/version-24.2/api/overview.mdx, after:

---
title: "API"
description: "Using the Seqera Platform API."
date: "15 Mar 2024"
tags: [api]
---

import MDXComponents from "@theme-original/MDXComponents";
import Button from "@site/src/components/Button";

The Seqera Platform services API is a programmatic interface for all operations available in the Platform web UI. This allows organizations to integrate Platform seamlessly into existing processes.

### API reference

<p>
  <Button to="https://cloud.seqera.io/openapi/index.html" className="mr-3" blue medium alt>View API reference</Button>
  <Button to="https://cloud.seqera.io/openapi/seqera-api-latest.yml" secondary medium alt>Download API schema</Button>
</p>

The API reference is an interactive list of all API endpoints and includes request and response payload examples to test requests in the browser.

:::info
The API requires authentication with a Platform access token to perform requests.

<Button to="https://cloud.seqera.io/tokens" secondary medium alt>Create an access token</Button>
:::

The API and its interactive reference is built on the OpenAPI standard.
Download the current OpenAPI schema file [here](https://cloud.seqera.io/openapi/seqera-api-latest.yml).

:::tip
For more information on the OpenAPI standard, see [OpenAPI](https://swagger.io/specification/).
:::

:::note
The API uses the [semantic versioning convention](https://semver.org/) (major.minor.patch). If/when we introduce a breaking change (v2+), we will publish guidance on the v1 support schedule and how to traverse the changes.

- Adding new API endpoints, request parameters, or response fields
- Adding new values to existing enums or string constants
- Expanding accepted input formats or value ranges
- Adding new optional headers or query parameters
- Improving error messages or adding new error codes
- Performance optimizations that don't alter behavior
- Adding new HTTP methods to existing endpoints
- Deprecation warnings (without removal)

Clients should be designed to gracefully handle unknown enum values, ignore unrecognized response fields, and not rely on specific error message text.
:::

### Encoding and formatting standards

- The API can be accessed from `https://api.cloud.seqera.io`.
- All API endpoints use HTTPS, and all request and response payloads use [JSON](https://www.json.org/) encoding.
- All timestamps use the [ISO 8601](https://www.iso.org/iso-8601-date-and-time-format.html) date-time standard format: `YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SSZ`.

:::note
From version 23.4, the Platform API is live on `https://api.cloud.seqera.io`. The legacy API `https://api.tower.nf` remains fully operational, so existing API integrations will continue to perform as expected. Deprecation of the legacy API will be communicated well in advance to avoid any breaking changes to your integrations.
:::

### Programmatic API

Both the [Seqera Platform CLI](../cli/overview) and [seqerakit](https://github.com/seqeralabs/seqera-kit) are built on the Platform API and provide a programmatic automation layer for operations.

You can also use tools such as [openapi-python-client](https://github.com/openapi-generators/openapi-python-client) to generate your own programmatic API for a particular language (such as Python) based on the OpenAPI schema. However, we do not guarantee that any OpenAPI client generators will work with the Platform API.

### Authentication

The API requires an authentication token to be specified in each API request using the
[Bearer](https://swagger.io/docs/specification/authentication/bearer-authentication) HTTP header.

Once created, use your access token to authenticate requests to the API via cURL, Postman, or within your code.

<Button to="https://cloud.seqera.io/tokens" secondary medium alt>Create an access token</Button>

:::note
The token is only displayed once when it is created. Store your token in a safe place.
:::

### cURL example

```bash
curl -H "Authorization: Bearer eyJ...YTk0" https://api.cloud.seqera.io/workflow
```

:::info
Your access token must be included in every API call.
:::

### Parameters

Some API `GET` methods will accept standard `query` parameters, which are defined in the documentation. Optional parameters such as page size, number (when available), and file name can be submitted as query parameters. `POST`, `PUT`, and `DELETE` requests require additional parameters to be provided in your request body.

Several head parameters are also accepted, such as `Authorization` for bearer access tokens or `Accept-Version` to indicate the desired API version to use (default version 1):

```bash
curl -H "Authorization: Bearer QH..E5M="
     -H "Accept-Version:1"
     -X POST https://api.cloud.seqera.io/domain/{item_id}?queryString={value}
     -d { params: { "key":"value" } }

```

### Client errors

Two typical standard errors (i.e., response statuses other than `200` or `204`) are returned by the API.

#### Bad Request

The request payload is not properly defined or the query parameters are invalid.

```json
{
  "message": "Unexpected error while processing - Error ID: 54apnFENQxbvCr23JaIjLb"
}
```

#### Forbidden

Your access token is invalid or expired. This response may also imply that the endpoint you are trying to access is not available. Check your request syntax for typos, and confirm that your access token is valid.

```bash
Status: 403 Forbidden
```

### Rate limiting

For all API requests, there is a limit of 20 calls per second, per access token (72000 calls per hour).
