platform_versioned_docs/version-24.2/troubleshooting_and_faqs/data_studios_troubleshooting.mdx, before:

---
title: "Studios"
description: "Studios troubleshooting with Seqera Platform."
date: "26 August 2024"
tags: [faq, help, studios, troubleshooting]
---

## View all mounted datasets

In your interactive analysis environment, open a new terminal and type `ls -la /workspace/data`. This displays all the mounted datasets available in the current studio session.

![](./_images/data_studios_notebook_fusion.png)

## Studio session is stuck in **starting**

If your studio session doesn't advance from **starting** status to **running** status within 30 minutes, and you have access to the AWS Console for your organization, check that the AWS Batch compute environment associated with the studio session is in the **ENABLED** state with a **VALID** status. You can also check the **Compute resources** settings. Contact your organization's AWS administrator if you don't have access to the AWS Console.

If sufficient compute environment resources are unavailable, **Stop** the studio session and any others that may be running before trying again. If you have access to the AWS Console for your organization, you can terminate a specific session from the AWS Batch Jobs page (filtering by compute environment queue).

## Studio session status is **errored**

The **errored** status is generally related to issues encountered when creating the studio session resources in the compute environment (e.g., invalid credentials, insufficient permissions, network issues). It can also be related to insufficient compute resources, which are set in your compute environment configuration. Contact your organization's AWS administrator if you don't have access to the AWS Console. Also contact your Seqera account executive so we can investigate the issue.

## Studio session can't be **stopped**

If you're not able to stop a studio session, it's usually because the Batch job running the session failed for some reason. In this case, and if you have access to the AWS Console for your organization, you can stop the session from the compute environment screen. Contact your organization's AWS administrator if you don't have access to the AWS Console. Also contact your Seqera account executive so we can investigate the issue.

## Studio session performance is poor

A slow or unresponsive studio session may be due to its AWS Batch compute environment being utilized for other jobs, such as running Nextflow pipelines. The compute environment is responsible for scheduling jobs to the available compute resources. Studio sessions compete for resources with the Nextflow pipeline head job and Seqera does not currently have an established pattern of precedence.

If you have access to the AWS Console for your organization, check the jobs associated with the AWS Batch compute environment and compare the resources allocated with its **Compute resources** settings.

## Memory allocation of the Studio session is exceeded

The running container in the AWS Batch compute environment inherits the memory limits specified by the studio session configuration when adding or starting the session. The kernel then handles the memory as if running natively on Linux. Linux can overcommit memory, leading to possible out-of-memory errors in a container environment. The kernel has protections in place to prevent this, but it can happen, and in this case, the process is killed. This can manifest as a performance lag, killed subprocesses, or at worst, a killed studio session. Running studio sessions have automated snapshots created every five minutes, so if the running container is killed only those changes made after the prior snapshot creation will be lost.

## All datasets are read-only

By default, AWS Batch compute environments that are created with Batch Forge restrict access to S3 to the working directory only, unless additional **Allowed S3 Buckets** are specified. If the compute environment does not have write access to the mounted dataset, it will be mounted as read-only.

## My Studio session with GPU isn't starting 

Check whether the instance type you selected [supports GPU](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types/). If you specify multiple GPUs make sure that multi-GPU instances can be launched by your compute environment and are not limited by the maximum CPU config that you've set.

## RStudio session initializes with error

Connecting to a running RStudio session with R version 4.4.1 (2024-06-14) -- "Race for Your Life" returns a `[rsession-root]` error similar to the following:

```
ERROR system error 2 (No such file or directory) [path:/sys/fs/cgroup/memory/memory.limit_in_bytes]; OCCURRED AT rstudio::core::Error rstudio::core::FilePath::openForRead(std::shared_ptr<std::basic_istream<char> >&)
...
```

This is displayed because logging is set to `stderr` by default to ensure all logs are shown during the session, and can safely be ignored.

## Container template image security scan false positives

### VSCode

When running an SCA security scan (e.g., with Trivy) on the latest Seqera-provided VSCode image [container template](../data_studios#container-image-templates), you may encounter multiple false-positive findings. This issue is due to how VSCode defines extensions, which can cause certain security scanners to incorrectly identify them as `npm` packages.

This is a known limitation and has been discussed in the Trivy community [here(https://github.com/aquasecurity/trivy/discussions/6112)].

These are the false positive confirmed findings:

| Component        | Vulnerability id⁠    |
| :--------------- | :------------------- |
| handlebars:1.0.0 | CVE-2021-23383⁠      |
| handlebars:1.0.0 | CVE-2021-23369⁠      |
| handlebars:1.0.0 | CVE-2019-19919⁠      |
| handlebars:1.0.0 | GHSA-q42p-pg8m-cqh6  |
| handlebars:1.0.0 | GHSA-q2c6-c6pm-g3gh⁠ |
| handlebars:1.0.0 | GHSA-g9r4-xpmj-mj65⁠ |
| handlebars:1.0.0 | GHSA-2cf5-4w76-r9qv⁠ |
| handlebars:1.0.0 | CVE-2019-20920⁠      |
| handlebars:1.0.0 | CVE-2015-8861⁠       |
| handlebars:1.0.0 | GMS-2015-33⁠         |
| npm:1.0.1        | CVE-2019-16777⁠      |
| npm:1.0.1        | CVE-2019-16776⁠      |
| npm:1.0.1        | CVE-2019-16775⁠      |
| npm:1.0.1        | CVE-2018-7408⁠       |
| npm:1.0.1        | CVE-2016-3956⁠       |
| npm:1.0.1        | CVE-2020-15095⁠      |
| npm:1.0.1        | CVE-2013-4116⁠       |
| npm:1.0.1        | GMS-2016-23⁠         |
| grunt:1.0.0      | CVE-2022-1537⁠       |
| grunt:1.0.0      | CVE-2020-7729⁠       |
| grunt:1.0.0      | CVE-2022-0436⁠       |
| pug:1.0.0        | CVE-2021-21353⁠      |
| pug:1.0.0        | CVE-2024-36361⁠      |
| json:1.0.0       | CVE-2020-7712⁠       |
| ini:1.0.0        | CVE-2020-7788⁠       |
| diff:1.0.0       | GHSA-h6ch-v84p-w6p9⁠ |

[contact]: https://seqera.io/contact-us/

Commit message:

Add admonishment about using EFS as the work directory with Studios (#510)
* Add admonishment about using EFS as the work directory with Studios

* Add additional admonishment about NF head job CPUs and head job Memory

* Add additional info in Troubleshooting docs

* Update studios_troubleshooting.mdx

Signed-off-by: Justine Geffen <justinegeffen@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update aws-batch.mdx

Signed-off-by: Justine Geffen <justinegeffen@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update aws-batch.mdx

Signed-off-by: Justine Geffen <justinegeffen@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update platform_versioned_docs/version-24.2/compute-envs/aws-batch.mdx

Signed-off-by: Justine Geffen <justinegeffen@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update platform_versioned_docs/version-24.2/compute-envs/aws-batch.mdx

Signed-off-by: Justine Geffen <justinegeffen@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update platform_versioned_docs/version-24.2/troubleshooting_and_faqs/data_studios_troubleshooting.mdx

Signed-off-by: Justine Geffen <justinegeffen@users.noreply.github.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: Justine Geffen <justinegeffen@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Justine Geffen <justinegeffen@users.noreply.github.com>

platform_versioned_docs/version-24.2/troubleshooting_and_faqs/data_studios_troubleshooting.mdx, after:

---
title: "Studios"
description: "Studios troubleshooting with Seqera Platform."
date: "26 August 2024"
tags: [faq, help, studios, troubleshooting]
---

## View all mounted datasets

In your interactive analysis environment, open a new terminal and type `ls -la /workspace/data`. This displays all the mounted datasets available in the current studio session.

![](./_images/data_studios_notebook_fusion.png)

## Session size limited by compute environment advanced options: Head job CPUs and Head job memory

 When adding a compute environment, setting the Advanced options **Head job CPUs** and **Head job memory** for Nextflow **also applies** to any studio session created in the compute environment. This is because studio sessions are managed by the Nextflow runner job. To avoid artifically constraining the resources of your studio sessions, **do not define these optional compute environment settings**.

## Studio session is stuck in **starting**

If your studio session doesn't advance from **starting** status to **running** status within 30 minutes, and you have access to the AWS Console for your organization, check that the AWS Batch compute environment associated with the studio session is in the **ENABLED** state with a **VALID** status. You can also check the **Compute resources** settings. Contact your organization's AWS administrator if you don't have access to the AWS Console.

If sufficient compute environment resources are unavailable, **Stop** the studio session and any others that may be running before trying again. If you have access to the AWS Console for your organization, you can terminate a specific session from the AWS Batch Jobs page (filtering by compute environment queue).

## Studio session status is **errored**

The **errored** status is generally related to issues encountered when creating the studio session resources in the compute environment (e.g., invalid credentials, insufficient permissions, network issues). It can also be related to insufficient compute resources, which are set in your compute environment configuration. Contact your organization's AWS administrator if you don't have access to the AWS Console. Also contact your Seqera account executive so we can investigate the issue.

## Studio session can't be **stopped**

If you're not able to stop a studio session, it's usually because the Batch job running the session failed for some reason. In this case, and if you have access to the AWS Console for your organization, you can stop the session from the compute environment screen. Contact your organization's AWS administrator if you don't have access to the AWS Console. Also contact your Seqera account executive so we can investigate the issue.

## Studio session performance is poor

A slow or unresponsive studio session may be due to its AWS Batch compute environment being utilized for other jobs, such as running Nextflow pipelines. The compute environment is responsible for scheduling jobs to the available compute resources. Studio sessions compete for resources with the Nextflow pipeline head job and Seqera does not currently have an established pattern of precedence.

If you have access to the AWS Console for your organization, check the jobs associated with the AWS Batch compute environment and compare the resources allocated with its **Compute resources** settings.

## Memory allocation of the Studio session is exceeded

The running container in the AWS Batch compute environment inherits the memory limits specified by the studio session configuration when adding or starting the session. The kernel then handles the memory as if running natively on Linux. Linux can overcommit memory, leading to possible out-of-memory errors in a container environment. The kernel has protections in place to prevent this, but it can happen, and in this case, the process is killed. This can manifest as a performance lag, killed subprocesses, or at worst, a killed studio session. Running studio sessions have automated snapshots created every five minutes, so if the running container is killed only those changes made after the prior snapshot creation will be lost.

## All datasets are read-only

By default, AWS Batch compute environments that are created with Batch Forge restrict access to S3 to the working directory only, unless additional **Allowed S3 Buckets** are specified. If the compute environment does not have write access to the mounted dataset, it will be mounted as read-only.

## My Studio session with GPU isn't starting 

Check whether the instance type you selected [supports GPU](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types/). If you specify multiple GPUs make sure that multi-GPU instances can be launched by your compute environment and are not limited by the maximum CPU config that you've set.

## RStudio session initializes with error

Connecting to a running RStudio session with R version 4.4.1 (2024-06-14) -- "Race for Your Life" returns a `[rsession-root]` error similar to the following:

```
ERROR system error 2 (No such file or directory) [path:/sys/fs/cgroup/memory/memory.limit_in_bytes]; OCCURRED AT rstudio::core::Error rstudio::core::FilePath::openForRead(std::shared_ptr<std::basic_istream<char> >&)
...
```

This is displayed because logging is set to `stderr` by default to ensure all logs are shown during the session, and can safely be ignored.

## Container template image security scan false positives

### VSCode

When running an SCA security scan (e.g., with Trivy) on the latest Seqera-provided VSCode image [container template](../data_studios#container-image-templates), you may encounter multiple false-positive findings. This issue is due to how VSCode defines extensions, which can cause certain security scanners to incorrectly identify them as `npm` packages.

This is a known limitation and has been discussed in the Trivy community [here(https://github.com/aquasecurity/trivy/discussions/6112)].

These are the false positive confirmed findings:

| Component        | Vulnerability id⁠    |
| :--------------- | :------------------- |
| handlebars:1.0.0 | CVE-2021-23383⁠      |
| handlebars:1.0.0 | CVE-2021-23369⁠      |
| handlebars:1.0.0 | CVE-2019-19919⁠      |
| handlebars:1.0.0 | GHSA-q42p-pg8m-cqh6  |
| handlebars:1.0.0 | GHSA-q2c6-c6pm-g3gh⁠ |
| handlebars:1.0.0 | GHSA-g9r4-xpmj-mj65⁠ |
| handlebars:1.0.0 | GHSA-2cf5-4w76-r9qv⁠ |
| handlebars:1.0.0 | CVE-2019-20920⁠      |
| handlebars:1.0.0 | CVE-2015-8861⁠       |
| handlebars:1.0.0 | GMS-2015-33⁠         |
| npm:1.0.1        | CVE-2019-16777⁠      |
| npm:1.0.1        | CVE-2019-16776⁠      |
| npm:1.0.1        | CVE-2019-16775⁠      |
| npm:1.0.1        | CVE-2018-7408⁠       |
| npm:1.0.1        | CVE-2016-3956⁠       |
| npm:1.0.1        | CVE-2020-15095⁠      |
| npm:1.0.1        | CVE-2013-4116⁠       |
| npm:1.0.1        | GMS-2016-23⁠         |
| grunt:1.0.0      | CVE-2022-1537⁠       |
| grunt:1.0.0      | CVE-2020-7729⁠       |
| grunt:1.0.0      | CVE-2022-0436⁠       |
| pug:1.0.0        | CVE-2021-21353⁠      |
| pug:1.0.0        | CVE-2024-36361⁠      |
| json:1.0.0       | CVE-2020-7712⁠       |
| ini:1.0.0        | CVE-2020-7788⁠       |
| diff:1.0.0       | GHSA-h6ch-v84p-w6p9⁠ |

[contact]: https://seqera.io/contact-us/
