platform_versioned_docs/version-23.3.0/compute-envs/google-cloud-batch.mdx, before:

---
title: "Google Cloud Batch"
description: "Instructions to set up Google Cloud Batch in Seqera Platform"
date: "21 Apr 2023"
tags: [google, batch, gcp, compute environment]
---

:::note
This guide assumes you have an existing Google Cloud account. Sign up for a free account [here](https://cloud.google.com/). Seqera Platform provides integration to Google Cloud via the [Batch API](https://cloud.google.com/batch/docs/reference/rest).
:::

The guide is split into two parts:

1. How to configure your Google Cloud account to use the Batch API.
2. How to create a Google Cloud Batch compute environment in Seqera.

## Configure Google Cloud

### Create a project

Go to the [Google Project Selector page](https://console.cloud.google.com/projectselector2) and select an existing project, or select **Create project**.

Enter a name for your new project, e.g., _tower-nf_.

If you are part of an organization, the location will default to your organization.

### Enable billing

See [here](https://cloud.google.com/billing/docs/how-to/modify-project) to enable billing in your Google Cloud account.

### Enable APIs

See [here](https://console.cloud.google.com/flows/enableapi?apiid=batch.googleapis.com%2Ccompute.googleapis.com%2Cstorage-api.googleapis.com) to enable the following APIs for your project:

- Batch API
- Compute Engine API
- Cloud Storage API

Select your project from the dropdown menu and select **Enable**.

Alternatively, you can enable each API manually by selecting your project in the navigation bar and visiting each API page:

- [Batch API](https://console.cloud.google.com/marketplace/product/google/batch.googleapis.com)

- [Compute Engine API](https://console.cloud.google.com/marketplace/product/google/compute.googleapis.com)

- [Cloud Storage API](https://console.cloud.google.com/marketplace/product/google/storage-api.googleapis.com)

### IAM

Seqera requires a service account with appropriate permissions to interact with your Google Cloud resources. As an IAM user, you must have access to the service account that will be submitting Batch jobs.

:::caution
By default, Google Cloud Batch uses the default Compute Engine service account to submit jobs. This service account is granted the Editor (`roles/Editor`) role. While this service account has the necessary permissions needed by Seqera, this role is not recommended for production environments. Control job access using a custom service account with only the permissions necessary for Seqera to execute Batch jobs instead.
:::

#### Service account permissions

[Create a custom service account][create-sa] with at least the following permissions:

- Batch Agent Reporter (`roles/batch.agentReporter`) on the project
- Batch Job Editor (`roles/batch.jobsEditor`) on the project
- Logs Writer (`roles/logging.logWriter`) on the project (to let jobs generate logs in Cloud Logging)
- Service Account User (`roles/iam.serviceAccountUser`)

If your Google Cloud project does not require access restrictions on any of its Cloud Storage buckets, you can grant project Storage Admin (`roles/storage.admin`) permissions to your service account to simplify setup. To grant access only to specific buckets, add the service account as a principal on each bucket individually. See [Cloud Storage bucket](#cloud-storage-bucket) below.

#### User permissions

Ask your Google Cloud administrator to grant you the following IAM user permissions to interact with your custom service account:

- Batch Job Editor (`roles/batch.jobsEditor`) on the project
- Service Account User (`roles/iam.serviceAccountUser`) on the job's service account (default: Compute Engine service account)
- View Service Accounts (`roles/iam.serviceAccountViewer`) on the project

To configure a credential in Seqera, you must first create a [service account JSON key file][get-json]:

1. In the Google Cloud navigation menu, select **IAM & Admin > Service Accounts**.
2. Select the email address of the service account.

    :::note
    The Compute Engine default service account is not recommended for production environments due to its powerful permissions. To use a service account other than the Compute Engine default, specify the service account email address under **Advanced options** on the Seqera compute environment creation form.
    :::

3. Select **Keys > Add key > Create new key**.
4. Select **JSON** as the key type.
5. Select **Create**.

A JSON file will be downloaded to your computer. This file contains the credential needed to configure the compute environment in Seqera.

You can manage your key from the **Service Accounts** page.

### Cloud Storage bucket

Google Cloud Storage is a type of **object storage**. To access files and store the results for your pipelines, create a **Cloud bucket** that your Seqera service account can access.

**Create a Cloud Storage bucket**

1. In the hamburger menu (**≡**), select **Cloud Storage**.
2. From the **Buckets** tab, select **Create**.
3. Enter a name for your bucket. You will reference this name when you create the compute environment in Seqera.
4. Select **Region** for the **Location type** and select the **Location** for your bucket. You'll reference this location when you create the compute environment in Seqera.
5. Select **Standard** for the default storage class.
6. Under **Access control**, select **Uniform**.

    :::note
    The Batch API is available in a limited number of [locations][batch-locations]. These locations are only used to store metadata about the pipeline operations. The storage bucket and compute resources can be in any region.
    :::

7. Select any additional object data protection tools, per your organization's data protection requirements.
8. Select **Create**.
9. After the bucket is created, you are redirected to the **Bucket details** page.
10. Select **Permissions**, then **Grant access** under **View by principals**.
11. Copy the email address of your service account into **New principals**.
12. Select the **Storage Admin** role.

:::tip
You've created a project, enabled the necessary Google APIs, created a bucket, and created a service account JSON key file with the required credentials. You now have what you need to set up a new compute environment in Seqera.
:::

### Seqera compute environment

After your Google Cloud resources have been created, create a new Seqera compute environment:

1. In a workspace, select **Compute Environments > New Environment**.
2. Enter a descriptive name for this environment, e.g., _Google Cloud Batch (europe-north1)_.
3. Select **Google Cloud Batch** as the target platform.
4. From the **Credentials** drop-down, select existing Google credentials, or select **+** to add new credentials. If you choose to use existing credentials, skip to step 7.
5. Enter a name for the credentials, e.g., _Google Cloud Credentials_.
6. Enter the **Service account key** from the JSON key file you created earlier.
7. Select the **Location** where you will execute your pipelines. See [Location][location] to learn more.
8. In the **Pipeline work directory** field, enter your storage bucket URL, e.g., `gs://my-bucket`. This bucket must be accessible in the location selected in the previous step.

    :::note
    When you specify a Cloud Storage bucket as your work directory, this bucket is used for the Nextflow [cloud cache](https://www.nextflow.io/docs/latest/cache-and-resume.html#cache-stores) by default. You can specify an alternative cache location with the **Nextflow config file** field on the pipeline [launch](../launch/launchpad.mdx#launch-form) form.
    :::

9. (_Optional_) Select **Enable Wave containers** to facilitate access to private container repositories and provision containers in your pipelines using the Wave containers service. See [Wave containers][wave-docs] for more information.
10. (_Optional_) Select **Enable Fusion v2** to allow access to your S3-hosted data via the [Fusion v2][fusion-docs] virtual distributed file system. This speeds up most data operations. The Fusion v2 file system requires Wave containers to be enabled in the previous step. See [Fusion file system][platform-fusion-docs] for configuration details.
11. Enable **Spot** to use spot instances, which have significantly reduced cost compared to on-demand instances.
12. Apply [**Resource labels**][resource-labels] to the cloud resources consumed by this compute environment. Workspace default resource labels are prefilled.
13. Expand **Staging options** to include optional [pre- or post-run Bash scripts][pre-post-run-scripts] that execute before or after the Nextflow pipeline execution in your environment.
14. Specify custom **Environment variables** for the Head job and/or Compute jobs.
15. Configure any advanced options you need:

    - Enable **Use Private Address** to ensure that your Google Cloud VMs aren't accessible to the public internet.

    - Use **Boot disk size** to control the boot disk size of VMs.

    - Use **Head Job CPUs** and **Head Job Memory** to specify the CPUs and memory allocated for head jobs.

    - Use **Service Account email** to specify a service account email other than the Compute Engine default to execute workflows with this compute environment (recommended for production environments).

    - Use **VPC** to specify the name of a VPC network to be used by this compute environment.

    - Use **Subnet** to specify the name of a subnet to be used by this compute environment.

    :::note
    **VPC** and **Subnet** must both be specified for your compute environment to use either.
    :::

16. Select **Create** to finish the compute environment setup.

Your new compute environment may take a few minutes to become available for pipeline execution after it is added to your workspace.

See [Launch pipelines](../launch/launchpad.mdx) to start running pipelines in your Google Cloud Batch compute environment.

[batch-locations]: https://cloud.google.com/batch/docs/locations
[create-sa]: https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/service-accounts-create#creating
[get-json]: https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/keys-list-get#get-key
[location]: https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/regions-zones#available
[wave-docs]: https://www.nextflow.io/docs/latest/wave.html
[fusion-docs]: https://www.nextflow.io/docs/latest/fusion.html
[platform-fusion-docs]: ../supported_software/fusion/fusion.mdx
[pre-post-run-scripts]: ../launch/advanced.mdx#pre-and-post-run-scripts
[resource-labels]: ../resource-labels/overview.mdx

Commit message:

Add cloud costs admonition to cloud CE pages

platform_versioned_docs/version-23.3.0/compute-envs/google-cloud-batch.mdx, after:

---
title: "Google Cloud Batch"
description: "Instructions to set up Google Cloud Batch in Seqera Platform"
date: "21 Apr 2023"
tags: [google, batch, gcp, compute environment]
---

:::note
This guide assumes you have an existing Google Cloud account. Sign up for a free account [here](https://cloud.google.com/). Seqera Platform provides integration to Google Cloud via the [Batch API](https://cloud.google.com/batch/docs/reference/rest).
:::

The guide is split into two parts:

1. How to configure your Google Cloud account to use the Batch API.
2. How to create a Google Cloud Batch compute environment in Seqera.

## Configure Google Cloud

### Create a project

Go to the [Google Project Selector page](https://console.cloud.google.com/projectselector2) and select an existing project, or select **Create project**.

Enter a name for your new project, e.g., _tower-nf_.

If you are part of an organization, the location will default to your organization.

### Enable billing

See [here](https://cloud.google.com/billing/docs/how-to/modify-project) to enable billing in your Google Cloud account.

### Enable APIs

See [here](https://console.cloud.google.com/flows/enableapi?apiid=batch.googleapis.com%2Ccompute.googleapis.com%2Cstorage-api.googleapis.com) to enable the following APIs for your project:

- Batch API
- Compute Engine API
- Cloud Storage API

Select your project from the dropdown menu and select **Enable**.

Alternatively, you can enable each API manually by selecting your project in the navigation bar and visiting each API page:

- [Batch API](https://console.cloud.google.com/marketplace/product/google/batch.googleapis.com)

- [Compute Engine API](https://console.cloud.google.com/marketplace/product/google/compute.googleapis.com)

- [Cloud Storage API](https://console.cloud.google.com/marketplace/product/google/storage-api.googleapis.com)

### IAM

Seqera requires a service account with appropriate permissions to interact with your Google Cloud resources. As an IAM user, you must have access to the service account that will be submitting Batch jobs.

:::caution
By default, Google Cloud Batch uses the default Compute Engine service account to submit jobs. This service account is granted the Editor (`roles/Editor`) role. While this service account has the necessary permissions needed by Seqera, this role is not recommended for production environments. Control job access using a custom service account with only the permissions necessary for Seqera to execute Batch jobs instead.
:::

#### Service account permissions

[Create a custom service account][create-sa] with at least the following permissions:

- Batch Agent Reporter (`roles/batch.agentReporter`) on the project
- Batch Job Editor (`roles/batch.jobsEditor`) on the project
- Logs Writer (`roles/logging.logWriter`) on the project (to let jobs generate logs in Cloud Logging)
- Service Account User (`roles/iam.serviceAccountUser`)

If your Google Cloud project does not require access restrictions on any of its Cloud Storage buckets, you can grant project Storage Admin (`roles/storage.admin`) permissions to your service account to simplify setup. To grant access only to specific buckets, add the service account as a principal on each bucket individually. See [Cloud Storage bucket](#cloud-storage-bucket) below.

#### User permissions

Ask your Google Cloud administrator to grant you the following IAM user permissions to interact with your custom service account:

- Batch Job Editor (`roles/batch.jobsEditor`) on the project
- Service Account User (`roles/iam.serviceAccountUser`) on the job's service account (default: Compute Engine service account)
- View Service Accounts (`roles/iam.serviceAccountViewer`) on the project

To configure a credential in Seqera, you must first create a [service account JSON key file][get-json]:

1. In the Google Cloud navigation menu, select **IAM & Admin > Service Accounts**.
2. Select the email address of the service account.

    :::note
    The Compute Engine default service account is not recommended for production environments due to its powerful permissions. To use a service account other than the Compute Engine default, specify the service account email address under **Advanced options** on the Seqera compute environment creation form.
    :::

3. Select **Keys > Add key > Create new key**.
4. Select **JSON** as the key type.
5. Select **Create**.

A JSON file will be downloaded to your computer. This file contains the credential needed to configure the compute environment in Seqera.

You can manage your key from the **Service Accounts** page.

### Cloud Storage bucket

Google Cloud Storage is a type of **object storage**. To access files and store the results for your pipelines, create a **Cloud bucket** that your Seqera service account can access.

**Create a Cloud Storage bucket**

1. In the hamburger menu (**≡**), select **Cloud Storage**.
2. From the **Buckets** tab, select **Create**.
3. Enter a name for your bucket. You will reference this name when you create the compute environment in Seqera.
4. Select **Region** for the **Location type** and select the **Location** for your bucket. You'll reference this location when you create the compute environment in Seqera.
5. Select **Standard** for the default storage class.
6. Under **Access control**, select **Uniform**.

    :::note
    The Batch API is available in a limited number of [locations][batch-locations]. These locations are only used to store metadata about the pipeline operations. The storage bucket and compute resources can be in any region.
    :::

7. Select any additional object data protection tools, per your organization's data protection requirements.
8. Select **Create**.
9. After the bucket is created, you are redirected to the **Bucket details** page.
10. Select **Permissions**, then **Grant access** under **View by principals**.
11. Copy the email address of your service account into **New principals**.
12. Select the **Storage Admin** role.

:::tip
You've created a project, enabled the necessary Google APIs, created a bucket, and created a service account JSON key file with the required credentials. You now have what you need to set up a new compute environment in Seqera.
:::

### Seqera compute environment

:::caution
Your Seqera compute environment uses resources that you may be charged for in your Google Cloud account. See [Cloud costs](../monitoring/cloud-costs.mdx) for guidelines to manage cloud resources effectively and prevent unexpected costs.
:::

After your Google Cloud resources have been created, create a new Seqera compute environment:

1. In a workspace, select **Compute Environments > New Environment**.
2. Enter a descriptive name for this environment, e.g., _Google Cloud Batch (europe-north1)_.
3. Select **Google Cloud Batch** as the target platform.
4. From the **Credentials** drop-down, select existing Google credentials, or select **+** to add new credentials. If you choose to use existing credentials, skip to step 7.
5. Enter a name for the credentials, e.g., _Google Cloud Credentials_.
6. Enter the **Service account key** from the JSON key file you created earlier.
7. Select the **Location** where you will execute your pipelines. See [Location][location] to learn more.
8. In the **Pipeline work directory** field, enter your storage bucket URL, e.g., `gs://my-bucket`. This bucket must be accessible in the location selected in the previous step.

    :::note
    When you specify a Cloud Storage bucket as your work directory, this bucket is used for the Nextflow [cloud cache](https://www.nextflow.io/docs/latest/cache-and-resume.html#cache-stores) by default. You can specify an alternative cache location with the **Nextflow config file** field on the pipeline [launch](../launch/launchpad.mdx#launch-form) form.
    :::

9. (_Optional_) Select **Enable Wave containers** to facilitate access to private container repositories and provision containers in your pipelines using the Wave containers service. See [Wave containers][wave-docs] for more information.
10. (_Optional_) Select **Enable Fusion v2** to allow access to your S3-hosted data via the [Fusion v2][fusion-docs] virtual distributed file system. This speeds up most data operations. The Fusion v2 file system requires Wave containers to be enabled in the previous step. See [Fusion file system][platform-fusion-docs] for configuration details.
11. Enable **Spot** to use spot instances, which have significantly reduced cost compared to on-demand instances.
12. Apply [**Resource labels**][resource-labels] to the cloud resources consumed by this compute environment. Workspace default resource labels are prefilled.
13. Expand **Staging options** to include optional [pre- or post-run Bash scripts][pre-post-run-scripts] that execute before or after the Nextflow pipeline execution in your environment.
14. Specify custom **Environment variables** for the Head job and/or Compute jobs.
15. Configure any advanced options you need:

    - Enable **Use Private Address** to ensure that your Google Cloud VMs aren't accessible to the public internet.

    - Use **Boot disk size** to control the boot disk size of VMs.

    - Use **Head Job CPUs** and **Head Job Memory** to specify the CPUs and memory allocated for head jobs.

    - Use **Service Account email** to specify a service account email other than the Compute Engine default to execute workflows with this compute environment (recommended for production environments).

    - Use **VPC** to specify the name of a VPC network to be used by this compute environment.

    - Use **Subnet** to specify the name of a subnet to be used by this compute environment.

    :::note
    **VPC** and **Subnet** must both be specified for your compute environment to use either.
    :::

16. Select **Create** to finish the compute environment setup.

Your new compute environment may take a few minutes to become available for pipeline execution after it is added to your workspace.

See [Launch pipelines](../launch/launchpad.mdx) to start running pipelines in your Google Cloud Batch compute environment.

[batch-locations]: https://cloud.google.com/batch/docs/locations
[create-sa]: https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/service-accounts-create#creating
[get-json]: https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/keys-list-get#get-key
[location]: https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/regions-zones#available
[wave-docs]: https://www.nextflow.io/docs/latest/wave.html
[fusion-docs]: https://www.nextflow.io/docs/latest/fusion.html
[platform-fusion-docs]: ../supported_software/fusion/fusion.mdx
[pre-post-run-scripts]: ../launch/advanced.mdx#pre-and-post-run-scripts
[resource-labels]: ../resource-labels/overview.mdx
