platform_versioned_docs/version-23.3.0/compute-envs/google-cloud-lifesciences.mdx, before:

---
title: "Google Life Sciences"
description: "Instructions to set up Google Life Sciences in Seqera Platform"
date: "21 Apr 2023"
tags: [google, gcp, life sciences, compute environment]
---

This guide assumes you have an existing Google Cloud account. Sign up for a free account [here](https://cloud.google.com/). Seqera Platform provides integration to Google Cloud via the [Cloud Life Sciences API](https://cloud.google.com/life-sciences/docs/reference/rest).

This guide is split into two parts:

1. How to configure your Google Cloud account to use the Cloud Life Sciences API.
2. How to create a Google Life Sciences compute environment in Seqera.

## Configure Google Cloud

### Create a project

Navigate to the [Google Project Selector page](https://console.cloud.google.com/projectselector2) and either select an existing project or select **Create project**.

Enter a name for your new project, e.g., _tower-nf_.

If you are part of an organization, the location will default to your organization.

### Enable billing

See [here](https://cloud.google.com/billing/docs/how-to/modify-project) to enable billing in your Google Cloud account.

### Enable APIs

See [here](https://console.cloud.google.com/flows/enableapi?apiid=lifesciences.googleapis.com%2Ccompute.googleapis.com%2Cstorage-api.googleapis.com) to enable the following APIs for your project:

- Cloud Life Sciences API
- Compute Engine API
- Cloud Storage API

Select your project from the dropdown menu and select **Enable**.

Alternatively, select your project in the navigation bar and enable each API manually from these pages:

- [Cloud Life Sciences API](https://console.cloud.google.com/marketplace/product/google/lifesciences.googleapis.com)

- [Compute Engine API](https://console.cloud.google.com/marketplace/product/google/compute.googleapis.com)

- [Cloud Storage API](https://console.cloud.google.com/marketplace/product/google/storage-api.googleapis.com)

### IAM

Seqera requires a service account with appropriate permissions to interact with your Google Cloud resources.

**Create a service account**

1. In the navigation menu, select **IAM & Admin > Service Accounts**.
2. Select the email address of the **Compute Engine default service account**.
3. Select **Keys > Add key > Create new key**.
4. Select **JSON** as the key type.
5. Select **Create**.

A JSON file will be downloaded to your computer. This file contains the credentials needed to configure the compute environment in Seqera.

You can manage your key from the **Service Accounts** page.

### Cloud Storage bucket

Google Cloud Storage is a type of **object storage**. To access files and store the results for your pipelines, create a **Cloud bucket** that your Seqera service account can access.

**Create a Cloud Storage bucket**

1. In the hamburger menu (**≡**), select **Cloud Storage > Create bucket**.
2. Enter a name for your bucket. You will reference this name when creating the compute environment in Seqera.

:::caution
Do not use underscores (`_`) in your bucket name. Use hyphens (`-`) instead.
:::

3. Select **Region** for the **Location type** and select the **Location** for your bucket. You will reference this location when creating the compute environment in Seqera.
4. Select **Standard** for the default storage class.
5. Select **Uniform** for the **Access control**.

:::note
The Cloud Life Sciences API is available in a limited number of [locations](https://cloud.google.com/life-sciences/docs/concepts/locations). These locations are only used to store metadata about the pipeline operations. The storage bucket and compute resources can be in any region.
:::

6. Select **Create**.
7. Once the bucket is created, you will be redirected to the **Bucket details** page.
8. Select **Permissions**, then **+ Add**.
9. Copy the email address of the Compute Engine default service account into **New principals**.
10. Select the following roles:

    - Storage Admin
    - Storage Legacy Bucket Owner
    - Storage Legacy Object Owner
    - Storage Object Creator

## Seqera compute environment

After your Google Cloud resources have been created, create a new Seqera compute environment.

**Create a Seqera Google Cloud Life Sciences compute environment**

1. In a workspace, select **Compute Environments > New Environment**.
2. Enter a descriptive name for this environment, e.g., _Google Life Sciences (europe-west2)_.
3. Select **Google Life Sciences** as the target platform.
4. From the **Credentials** drop-down, select existing Google Cloud credentials, or add new credentials by selecting the **+** button. If you choose to use existing credentials, skip to step 7.

:::tip
You can create multiple credentials in your Seqera workspace. See [Credentials](../credentials/overview.mdx).
:::

5. Enter a name for the credentials, e.g., _Google Cloud Credentials_.
6. Enter the **Service account key** created previously.
7. Select the [**Region** and **Zones**](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/regions-zones#available) where you wish to execute pipelines. Leave the **Location** empty for the Cloud Life Sciences API to use the closest available location.
8. In the **Pipeline work directory** field, enter your storage bucket URL, e.g., `gs://my-bucket`. This bucket must be accessible in the region selected in the previous step.

    :::note
    When you specify a Cloud Storage bucket as your work directory, this bucket is used for the Nextflow [cloud cache](https://www.nextflow.io/docs/latest/cache-and-resume.html#cache-stores) by default. You can specify an alternative cache location with the **Nextflow config file** field on the pipeline [launch](../launch/launchpad.mdx#launch-form) form.
    :::

9. You can enable **Preemptible** to use preemptible instances, which have significantly reduced cost compared to on-demand instances.
10. You can use a **Filestore file system** to automatically mount a Google Filestore volume in your pipelines.
11. Apply [**Resource labels**](../resource-labels/overview.mdx) to the cloud resources consumed by this compute environment. Workspace default resource labels are prefilled.
12. Expand **Staging options** to include optional [pre- or post-run Bash scripts](../launch/advanced.mdx#pre--post-run-scripts) that execute before or after the Nextflow pipeline execution in your environment.
13. Use the **Environment variables** option to specify custom environment variables for the Head job and/or Compute jobs.
14. Configure any advanced options you need:

    - Enable **Use Private Address** to ensure that your Google Cloud VMs aren't accessible to the public internet.

    - Use **Boot disk size** to control the boot disk size of VMs.

    - Use **Head Job CPUs** and **Head Job Memory** to specify the CPUs and memory allocated for head jobs.

15. Select **Create** to finalize the compute environment setup.

See [Launch pipelines](../launch/launchpad.mdx) to start executing workflows in your Google Cloud Life Sciences compute environment.

Commit message:

Add cloud costs admonition to cloud CE pages

platform_versioned_docs/version-23.3.0/compute-envs/google-cloud-lifesciences.mdx, after:

---
title: "Google Life Sciences"
description: "Instructions to set up Google Life Sciences in Seqera Platform"
date: "21 Apr 2023"
tags: [google, gcp, life sciences, compute environment]
---

This guide assumes you have an existing Google Cloud account. Sign up for a free account [here](https://cloud.google.com/). Seqera Platform provides integration to Google Cloud via the [Cloud Life Sciences API](https://cloud.google.com/life-sciences/docs/reference/rest).

This guide is split into two parts:

1. How to configure your Google Cloud account to use the Cloud Life Sciences API.
2. How to create a Google Life Sciences compute environment in Seqera.

## Configure Google Cloud

### Create a project

Navigate to the [Google Project Selector page](https://console.cloud.google.com/projectselector2) and either select an existing project or select **Create project**.

Enter a name for your new project, e.g., _tower-nf_.

If you are part of an organization, the location will default to your organization.

### Enable billing

See [here](https://cloud.google.com/billing/docs/how-to/modify-project) to enable billing in your Google Cloud account.

### Enable APIs

See [here](https://console.cloud.google.com/flows/enableapi?apiid=lifesciences.googleapis.com%2Ccompute.googleapis.com%2Cstorage-api.googleapis.com) to enable the following APIs for your project:

- Cloud Life Sciences API
- Compute Engine API
- Cloud Storage API

Select your project from the dropdown menu and select **Enable**.

Alternatively, select your project in the navigation bar and enable each API manually from these pages:

- [Cloud Life Sciences API](https://console.cloud.google.com/marketplace/product/google/lifesciences.googleapis.com)

- [Compute Engine API](https://console.cloud.google.com/marketplace/product/google/compute.googleapis.com)

- [Cloud Storage API](https://console.cloud.google.com/marketplace/product/google/storage-api.googleapis.com)

### IAM

Seqera requires a service account with appropriate permissions to interact with your Google Cloud resources.

**Create a service account**

1. In the navigation menu, select **IAM & Admin > Service Accounts**.
2. Select the email address of the **Compute Engine default service account**.
3. Select **Keys > Add key > Create new key**.
4. Select **JSON** as the key type.
5. Select **Create**.

A JSON file will be downloaded to your computer. This file contains the credentials needed to configure the compute environment in Seqera.

You can manage your key from the **Service Accounts** page.

### Cloud Storage bucket

Google Cloud Storage is a type of **object storage**. To access files and store the results for your pipelines, create a **Cloud bucket** that your Seqera service account can access.

**Create a Cloud Storage bucket**

1. In the hamburger menu (**≡**), select **Cloud Storage > Create bucket**.
2. Enter a name for your bucket. You will reference this name when creating the compute environment in Seqera.

:::caution
Do not use underscores (`_`) in your bucket name. Use hyphens (`-`) instead.
:::

3. Select **Region** for the **Location type** and select the **Location** for your bucket. You will reference this location when creating the compute environment in Seqera.
4. Select **Standard** for the default storage class.
5. Select **Uniform** for the **Access control**.

:::note
The Cloud Life Sciences API is available in a limited number of [locations](https://cloud.google.com/life-sciences/docs/concepts/locations). These locations are only used to store metadata about the pipeline operations. The storage bucket and compute resources can be in any region.
:::

6. Select **Create**.
7. Once the bucket is created, you will be redirected to the **Bucket details** page.
8. Select **Permissions**, then **+ Add**.
9. Copy the email address of the Compute Engine default service account into **New principals**.
10. Select the following roles:

    - Storage Admin
    - Storage Legacy Bucket Owner
    - Storage Legacy Object Owner
    - Storage Object Creator

## Seqera compute environment

:::caution
Your Seqera compute environment uses resources that you may be charged for in your Google Cloud account. See [Cloud costs](../monitoring/cloud-costs.mdx) for guidelines to manage cloud resources effectively and prevent unexpected costs.
:::

After your Google Cloud resources have been created, create a new Seqera compute environment.

**Create a Seqera Google Cloud Life Sciences compute environment**

1. In a workspace, select **Compute Environments > New Environment**.
2. Enter a descriptive name for this environment, e.g., _Google Life Sciences (europe-west2)_.
3. Select **Google Life Sciences** as the target platform.
4. From the **Credentials** drop-down, select existing Google Cloud credentials, or add new credentials by selecting the **+** button. If you choose to use existing credentials, skip to step 7.

:::tip
You can create multiple credentials in your Seqera workspace. See [Credentials](../credentials/overview.mdx).
:::

5. Enter a name for the credentials, e.g., _Google Cloud Credentials_.
6. Enter the **Service account key** created previously.
7. Select the [**Region** and **Zones**](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/regions-zones#available) where you wish to execute pipelines. Leave the **Location** empty for the Cloud Life Sciences API to use the closest available location.
8. In the **Pipeline work directory** field, enter your storage bucket URL, e.g., `gs://my-bucket`. This bucket must be accessible in the region selected in the previous step.

    :::note
    When you specify a Cloud Storage bucket as your work directory, this bucket is used for the Nextflow [cloud cache](https://www.nextflow.io/docs/latest/cache-and-resume.html#cache-stores) by default. You can specify an alternative cache location with the **Nextflow config file** field on the pipeline [launch](../launch/launchpad.mdx#launch-form) form.
    :::

9. You can enable **Preemptible** to use preemptible instances, which have significantly reduced cost compared to on-demand instances.
10. You can use a **Filestore file system** to automatically mount a Google Filestore volume in your pipelines.
11. Apply [**Resource labels**](../resource-labels/overview.mdx) to the cloud resources consumed by this compute environment. Workspace default resource labels are prefilled.
12. Expand **Staging options** to include optional [pre- or post-run Bash scripts](../launch/advanced.mdx#pre--post-run-scripts) that execute before or after the Nextflow pipeline execution in your environment.
13. Use the **Environment variables** option to specify custom environment variables for the Head job and/or Compute jobs.
14. Configure any advanced options you need:

    - Enable **Use Private Address** to ensure that your Google Cloud VMs aren't accessible to the public internet.

    - Use **Boot disk size** to control the boot disk size of VMs.

    - Use **Head Job CPUs** and **Head Job Memory** to specify the CPUs and memory allocated for head jobs.

15. Select **Create** to finalize the compute environment setup.

See [Launch pipelines](../launch/launchpad.mdx) to start executing workflows in your Google Cloud Life Sciences compute environment.
