platform_versioned_docs/version-24.2/data/data-explorer.mdx, before:

---
title: "Data Explorer"
description: "Using Seqera Data Explorer."
date: "21 Apr 2023"
tags: [data, explorer]
---

With Data Explorer, you can browse and interact with remote data repositories from organization workspaces in Seqera Platform. It supports AWS S3, Azure Blob Storage, and Google Cloud Storage repositories.

:::note
To enable Data Explorer globally for all workspaces and users in your **Seqera Enterprise** account, set `TOWER_DATA_EXPLORER_ENABLED=true` in your environment variables (default: `false`).

To disable Data Explorer automatic cloud bucket retrieval per workspace in your **Seqera Enterprise** account, specify comma-separated workspace IDs with the `TOWER_DATA_EXPLORER_CLOUD_DISABLED_WORKSPACES` environment variable.
:::

Access the **Data Explorer** tab from any enabled workspace to view and manage all available cloud storage buckets. It is also integrated with the pipeline launch form and run detail pages, which allows you to select input data files and output directories or quickly view the output files of a run.

If you use Seqera Cloud and want to disable Data Explorer, [contact](https://seqera.io/contact-us/) your Seqera account executive.

## Participant roles

The role assigned to a workspace user affects what functionality is available in Data Explorer. The specific functionality for each role is described in the following list of roles:

- **View**: Can only view contents of cloud storage buckets. Cannot download, upload, or preview. Cannot hide or add buckets.
- **Launch**: Can only view contents of cloud storage buckets. Cannot download, upload, or preview. Cannot hide or add buckets.
- **Connect**: Can only view contents of cloud storage buckets. Cannot download, upload, or preview. Cannot hide or add buckets.
- **Maintain**: Can view download, upload, and preview contents of cloud storage buckets. Can hide and add buckets.
- **Admin**: Can view, download, upload, and preview contents of cloud storage buckets. Can hide and add buckets.
- **Owner**: Can view, download, upload, and preview contents of cloud storage buckets. Can hide and add buckets.

For more information on roles in Seqera Platform, see [Participant roles][roles].

## Add cloud storage buckets

Data Explorer lists public and private cloud storage buckets. Buckets accessible to your workspace cloud credentials are retrieved automatically; workspace maintainers can also configure buckets manually.

- **Retrieve cloud buckets with workspace credentials**

  Private cloud storage buckets accessible to the credentials defined in your workspace are listed in Data Explorer automatically. The cloud storage permissions required for your [AWS](../compute-envs/aws-batch.mdx#iam), [Google Cloud](../compute-envs/google-cloud-batch.mdx#iam), and [Azure Batch](../compute-envs/azure-batch.mdx#create-a-storage-account) compute environment credentials allow full Data Explorer functionality.

- **Configure individual buckets manually**

  Select **Add cloud bucket** from the Data Explorer tab to add individual buckets (or directory paths within buckets). Specify the **Provider**, **Bucket path**, **Name**, **Credentials**, and **Description**, then select **Add**. For public cloud buckets, select **Public** from the **Credentials** drop-down menu.


## Browse cloud storage buckets

![](./_images/data_explorer.png)

- **View bucket details**

  To view bucket details such as the cloud provider, bucket address, and credentials, select the information icon next to a bucket in the Data Explorer list.

- **Search and filter buckets**

  Search for buckets by name and region (e.g., `region:eu-west-2`) in the search field, and filter by provider.

- **Hide buckets from list view**

  Using checkboxes, choose one or more buckets, then select the **Hide** icon in the Data Explorer toolbar. To hide buckets individually, select **Hide** from the three dots options menu of a bucket in the list.

  The Data Explorer list filter defaults to **Only visible**. Select **Only hidden** or **All** from the filtering menu to view hidden buckets in the list. You can unhide a bucket by selecting **Show** from the three dots options menu in the list view.

- **View bucket contents**

  Select a bucket name from the Data Explorer list to view the contents of that bucket. From the **View cloud bucket** page, you can browse directories and search for objects by name in a particular directory. The size and path of an object is displayed in columns to the right of the object name. To view bucket details such as the cloud provider, bucket address, and credentials, select the information icon.

- **Preview and download files**

  From the **View cloud bucket** page, you can preview and download files. Select the download icon in the **Actions** column to download a file directly from the list view. Select a file to open a preview window that includes a **Download** button.

  File preview is supported for these object types:

  - Nextflow output files ( `.command.*`, `.fusion.*` and `.exitcode` )
  - Text
  - CSV and TSV
  - PDF
  - HTML
  - Images (JPG, PNG, SVG, etc.)

  :::note
  The file size limit for preview is 10 MB. 10-25 MB files can still be downloaded directly.

  Seqera Enterprise users can increase the default 25 MB file size download limit with `tower.content.max-file-size` in the `tower.yml` [configuration](../enterprise/configuration/overview.mdx#data-features) file. Note that increasing this value may degrade Platform performance.
  :::

- **Copy bucket/object paths**

  Select the **Path** of an object on the **View cloud bucket** page to copy its absolute path to the clipboard. Use these object paths to specify input data locations during [pipeline launch](../launch/launchpad.mdx), or add them to a [dataset](../data/datasets.mdx) for pipeline input.

## Upload files to private buckets

Data Explorer supports file uploads to your private cloud storage buckets. From the **View cloud bucket** page, select **Upload file** to select the files you wish to upload.

:::note
You must configure cross-origin resource sharing (CORS) for your cloud storage provider to allow file uploads from Seqera. CORS configuration differs for each provider.
:::

## Download multiple files {#download-multiple-files-using-a-script}

You can download up to a maximum of 1,000 files using the browser interface, or an unlimited number of files with the auto-generated download script that uses your cloud provider's CLI and credentials.

:::note
If you use a non-Chromium based browser, such as Safari or Firefox, file paths are concatenated with an underscore (`_`) character and the cloud bucket directory structure is not reproduced locally. For example, the file `s3://example-us-east-1/path/to/files/my-file-1.txt` is saved as `path_to_files_my-file-1.txt`.
:::

Open the cloud bucket and navigate to the folder that you'd like to download files and folders from. By default, you can download the contents of the current directory by choosing **Download current directory**. Alternatively, use checkboxes to select specific files and folders, and select the **Download** button. You can **Download files** via the browser or **Download using code**.

The code snippet provided is specific to the cloud provider you've configured. You may be prompted to authenticate during the download process. Refer to your cloud provider's documentation for troubleshooting credential-related issues:

- [GCP](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/storage)
- [AWS](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/s3/)
- [Azure](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/storage?view=azure-cli-latest)

## CORS configurations

Each public cloud provider has a specific way to allow Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) for both uploads and multi-file downloads.

### Amazon S3 CORS configuration

Apply a [CORS configuration](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/ManageCorsUsing.html) to enable file uploads and folder downloads from the Seqera Platform to and from specific S3 buckets. The CORS configuration is a JSON file that defines the origins, headers, and methods allowed for resource sharing requests to a bucket. Follow [these AWS instructions](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/enabling-cors-examples.html) to apply the CORS configuration below to each bucket you wish to enable file uploads and folder downloads for:

**Seqera Cloud S3 CORS configuration**

```json
[
  {
    "AllowedHeaders": ["*"],
    "AllowedMethods": ["PUT", "POST", "DELETE", "GET"],
    "AllowedOrigins": ["https://cloud.seqera.io"],
    "ExposeHeaders": ["ETag"]
  }
]
```

**Seqera Enterprise S3 CORS configuration**

Replace `<your-seqera-instance.url>` with your Seqera Enterprise server URL:

```json
[
  {
    "AllowedHeaders": ["*"],
    "AllowedMethods": ["PUT", "POST", "DELETE", "GET"],
    "AllowedOrigins": ["https://<your-seqera-instance.url>"],
    "ExposeHeaders": ["ETag"]
  }
]
```

### Azure Blob Storage CORS configuration

:::note
CORS configuration in Azure Blob Storage is set at the account level. This means that CORS rules for your account apply to every blob in the account.
:::

Apply a [CORS configuration](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/rest/api/storageservices/cross-origin-resource-sharing--cors--support-for-the-azure-storage-services#enabling-cors-for-azure-storage) to enable file uploads and folder downloads from the Seqera Platform to and from your Azure Blob Storage account.

**Seqera Cloud Azure CORS configuration**

1. From the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com), go to the **Storage account** you wish to configure.
2. Under **Settings** in the left navigation menu, select **Resource sharing (CORS)**.
3. Add a new entry under **Blob service**:

   - **Allowed origins**: `https://cloud.seqera.io`
   - **Allowed methods**: `GET,POST,PUT,DELETE,HEAD`
   - **Allowed headers**: `x-ms-blob-type,content-type`
   - **Exposed headers**: `x-ms-blob-type`

4. Select **Save** to apply the CORS configuration.

**Seqera Enterprise Azure CORS configuration**

1. From the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com), go to the Storage account you wish to configure.
2. Under **Settings** in the left navigation menu, select **Resource sharing (CORS)**.
3. Add a new entry under **Blob service**:

   - **Allowed origins**: `https://<your_seqera_instance_url>`
   - **Allowed methods**: `GET,POST,PUT,DELETE,HEAD`
   - **Allowed headers**: `x-ms-blob-type,content-type`
   - **Exposed headers**: `x-ms-blob-type`

4. Select **Save** to apply the CORS configuration.

### Google Cloud Storage CORS configuration

Apply a [CORS configuration](https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/cross-origin#cors-components) to enable file uploads from Seqera to specific GCS buckets. The CORS configuration is a JSON file that defines the origins, headers, and methods allowed for resource sharing requests to a bucket. Follow [these Google instructions](https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/using-cors#command-line) to apply the CORS configuration below to each bucket you wish to enable file uploads for.

:::note
Google Cloud Storage only supports CORS configuration via gcloud CLI.
:::

**Seqera Cloud GCS CORS configuration**

```json
{
  "origin": ["https://cloud.seqera.io"],
  "method": ["GET", "POST", "PUT", "DELETE", "HEAD"],
  "responseHeader": ["Content-Type", "Content-Range"],
  "maxAgeSeconds": 3600
}
```

**Seqera Enterprise GCS CORS configuration**

```json
{
  "origin": ["https://<your_seqera_instance_url>"],
  "method": ["GET", "POST", "PUT", "DELETE", "HEAD"],
  "responseHeader": ["Content-Type", "Content-Range"],
  "maxAgeSeconds": 3600
}
```

[roles]: ../orgs-and-teams/roles.mdx

Commit message:

EDU-483: Add Data Explorer bucket removal (#426)
* EDU-483: Add Data Explorer bucket removal

- https://seqera.atlassian.net/browse/EDU-483

* Update platform_versioned_docs/version-24.2/data/data-explorer.mdx

Signed-off-by: Justine Geffen <justinegeffen@users.noreply.github.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: Justine Geffen <justinegeffen@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Justine Geffen <justinegeffen@users.noreply.github.com>

platform_versioned_docs/version-24.2/data/data-explorer.mdx, after:

---
title: "Data Explorer"
description: "Using Seqera Data Explorer."
date: "21 Apr 2023"
tags: [data, explorer]
---

With Data Explorer, you can browse and interact with remote data repositories from organization workspaces in Seqera Platform. It supports AWS S3, Azure Blob Storage, and Google Cloud Storage repositories.

:::note
To enable Data Explorer globally for all workspaces and users in your **Seqera Enterprise** account, set `TOWER_DATA_EXPLORER_ENABLED=true` in your environment variables (default: `false`).

To disable Data Explorer automatic cloud bucket retrieval per workspace in your **Seqera Enterprise** account, specify comma-separated workspace IDs with the `TOWER_DATA_EXPLORER_CLOUD_DISABLED_WORKSPACES` environment variable.
:::

Access the **Data Explorer** tab from any enabled workspace to view and manage all available cloud storage buckets. It is also integrated with the pipeline launch form and run detail pages, which allows you to select input data files and output directories or quickly view the output files of a run.

If you use Seqera Cloud and want to disable Data Explorer, [contact](https://seqera.io/contact-us/) your Seqera account executive.

## Participant roles

The role assigned to a workspace user affects what functionality is available in Data Explorer. The specific functionality for each role is described in the following list of roles:

- **View**: Can only view contents of cloud storage buckets. Cannot download, upload, or preview. Cannot hide or add buckets.
- **Launch**: Can only view contents of cloud storage buckets. Cannot download, upload, or preview. Cannot hide or add buckets.
- **Connect**: Can only view contents of cloud storage buckets. Cannot download, upload, or preview. Cannot hide or add buckets.
- **Maintain**: Can view download, upload, and preview contents of cloud storage buckets. Can hide and add buckets.
- **Admin**: Can view, download, upload, and preview contents of cloud storage buckets. Can hide and add buckets.
- **Owner**: Can view, download, upload, and preview contents of cloud storage buckets. Can hide and add buckets.

For more information on roles in Seqera Platform, see [Participant roles][roles].

## Add cloud storage buckets

Data Explorer lists public and private cloud storage buckets. Buckets accessible to your workspace cloud credentials are retrieved automatically; workspace maintainers can also configure buckets manually.

- **Retrieve cloud buckets with workspace credentials**

  Private cloud storage buckets accessible to the credentials defined in your workspace are listed in Data Explorer automatically. The cloud storage permissions required for your [AWS](../compute-envs/aws-batch.mdx#iam), [Google Cloud](../compute-envs/google-cloud-batch.mdx#iam), and [Azure Batch](../compute-envs/azure-batch.mdx#create-a-storage-account) compute environment credentials allow full Data Explorer functionality.

- **Configure individual buckets manually**

  Select **Add cloud bucket** from the Data Explorer tab to add individual buckets (or directory paths within buckets). Specify the **Provider**, **Bucket path**, **Name**, **Credentials**, and **Description**, then select **Add**. For public cloud buckets, select **Public** from the **Credentials** drop-down menu.

## Remove cloud storage buckets

A workspace maintainer can remove a manually created cloud storage bucket.

From the **Data Explorer** tab, find the cloud bucket that you want to delete. Select the options menu for the bucket, and select **Remove**. When prompted, select **Remove** from the confirmation modal that appears.

If you remove a data link associated with a cloud storage bucket, the data link is automatically removed from the relevant Studio configuration.

## Browse cloud storage buckets

![](./_images/data_explorer.png)

- **View bucket details**

  To view bucket details such as the cloud provider, bucket address, and credentials, select the information icon next to a bucket in the Data Explorer list.

- **Search and filter buckets**

  Search for buckets by name and region (e.g., `region:eu-west-2`) in the search field, and filter by provider.

- **Hide buckets from list view**

  Using checkboxes, choose one or more buckets, then select the **Hide** icon in the Data Explorer toolbar. To hide buckets individually, select **Hide** from the three dots options menu of a bucket in the list.

  The Data Explorer list filter defaults to **Only visible**. Select **Only hidden** or **All** from the filtering menu to view hidden buckets in the list. You can unhide a bucket by selecting **Show** from the three dots options menu in the list view.

- **View bucket contents**

  Select a bucket name from the Data Explorer list to view the contents of that bucket. From the **View cloud bucket** page, you can browse directories and search for objects by name in a particular directory. The size and path of an object is displayed in columns to the right of the object name. To view bucket details such as the cloud provider, bucket address, and credentials, select the information icon.

- **Preview and download files**

  From the **View cloud bucket** page, you can preview and download files. Select the download icon in the **Actions** column to download a file directly from the list view. Select a file to open a preview window that includes a **Download** button.

  File preview is supported for these object types:

  - Nextflow output files ( `.command.*`, `.fusion.*` and `.exitcode` )
  - Text
  - CSV and TSV
  - PDF
  - HTML
  - Images (JPG, PNG, SVG, etc.)

  :::note
  The file size limit for preview is 10 MB. 10-25 MB files can still be downloaded directly.

  Seqera Enterprise users can increase the default 25 MB file size download limit with `tower.content.max-file-size` in the `tower.yml` [configuration](../enterprise/configuration/overview.mdx#data-features) file. Note that increasing this value may degrade Platform performance.
  :::

- **Copy bucket/object paths**

  Select the **Path** of an object on the **View cloud bucket** page to copy its absolute path to the clipboard. Use these object paths to specify input data locations during [pipeline launch](../launch/launchpad.mdx), or add them to a [dataset](../data/datasets.mdx) for pipeline input.

## Upload files to private buckets

Data Explorer supports file uploads to your private cloud storage buckets. From the **View cloud bucket** page, select **Upload file** to select the files you wish to upload.

:::note
You must configure cross-origin resource sharing (CORS) for your cloud storage provider to allow file uploads from Seqera. CORS configuration differs for each provider.
:::

## Download multiple files {#download-multiple-files-using-a-script}

You can download up to a maximum of 1,000 files using the browser interface, or an unlimited number of files with the auto-generated download script that uses your cloud provider's CLI and credentials.

:::note
If you use a non-Chromium based browser, such as Safari or Firefox, file paths are concatenated with an underscore (`_`) character and the cloud bucket directory structure is not reproduced locally. For example, the file `s3://example-us-east-1/path/to/files/my-file-1.txt` is saved as `path_to_files_my-file-1.txt`.
:::

Open the cloud bucket and navigate to the folder that you'd like to download files and folders from. By default, you can download the contents of the current directory by choosing **Download current directory**. Alternatively, use checkboxes to select specific files and folders, and select the **Download** button. You can **Download files** via the browser or **Download using code**.

The code snippet provided is specific to the cloud provider you've configured. You may be prompted to authenticate during the download process. Refer to your cloud provider's documentation for troubleshooting credential-related issues:

- [GCP](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/storage)
- [AWS](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/s3/)
- [Azure](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/storage?view=azure-cli-latest)

## CORS configurations

Each public cloud provider has a specific way to allow Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) for both uploads and multi-file downloads.

### Amazon S3 CORS configuration

Apply a [CORS configuration](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/ManageCorsUsing.html) to enable file uploads and folder downloads from the Seqera Platform to and from specific S3 buckets. The CORS configuration is a JSON file that defines the origins, headers, and methods allowed for resource sharing requests to a bucket. Follow [these AWS instructions](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/enabling-cors-examples.html) to apply the CORS configuration below to each bucket you wish to enable file uploads and folder downloads for:

**Seqera Cloud S3 CORS configuration**

```json
[
  {
    "AllowedHeaders": ["*"],
    "AllowedMethods": ["PUT", "POST", "DELETE", "GET"],
    "AllowedOrigins": ["https://cloud.seqera.io"],
    "ExposeHeaders": ["ETag"]
  }
]
```

**Seqera Enterprise S3 CORS configuration**

Replace `<your-seqera-instance.url>` with your Seqera Enterprise server URL:

```json
[
  {
    "AllowedHeaders": ["*"],
    "AllowedMethods": ["PUT", "POST", "DELETE", "GET"],
    "AllowedOrigins": ["https://<your-seqera-instance.url>"],
    "ExposeHeaders": ["ETag"]
  }
]
```

### Azure Blob Storage CORS configuration

:::note
CORS configuration in Azure Blob Storage is set at the account level. This means that CORS rules for your account apply to every blob in the account.
:::

Apply a [CORS configuration](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/rest/api/storageservices/cross-origin-resource-sharing--cors--support-for-the-azure-storage-services#enabling-cors-for-azure-storage) to enable file uploads and folder downloads from the Seqera Platform to and from your Azure Blob Storage account.

**Seqera Cloud Azure CORS configuration**

1. From the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com), go to the **Storage account** you wish to configure.
2. Under **Settings** in the left navigation menu, select **Resource sharing (CORS)**.
3. Add a new entry under **Blob service**:

   - **Allowed origins**: `https://cloud.seqera.io`
   - **Allowed methods**: `GET,POST,PUT,DELETE,HEAD`
   - **Allowed headers**: `x-ms-blob-type,content-type`
   - **Exposed headers**: `x-ms-blob-type`

4. Select **Save** to apply the CORS configuration.

**Seqera Enterprise Azure CORS configuration**

1. From the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com), go to the Storage account you wish to configure.
2. Under **Settings** in the left navigation menu, select **Resource sharing (CORS)**.
3. Add a new entry under **Blob service**:

   - **Allowed origins**: `https://<your_seqera_instance_url>`
   - **Allowed methods**: `GET,POST,PUT,DELETE,HEAD`
   - **Allowed headers**: `x-ms-blob-type,content-type`
   - **Exposed headers**: `x-ms-blob-type`

4. Select **Save** to apply the CORS configuration.

### Google Cloud Storage CORS configuration

Apply a [CORS configuration](https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/cross-origin#cors-components) to enable file uploads from Seqera to specific GCS buckets. The CORS configuration is a JSON file that defines the origins, headers, and methods allowed for resource sharing requests to a bucket. Follow [these Google instructions](https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/using-cors#command-line) to apply the CORS configuration below to each bucket you wish to enable file uploads for.

:::note
Google Cloud Storage only supports CORS configuration via gcloud CLI.
:::

**Seqera Cloud GCS CORS configuration**

```json
{
  "origin": ["https://cloud.seqera.io"],
  "method": ["GET", "POST", "PUT", "DELETE", "HEAD"],
  "responseHeader": ["Content-Type", "Content-Range"],
  "maxAgeSeconds": 3600
}
```

**Seqera Enterprise GCS CORS configuration**

```json
{
  "origin": ["https://<your_seqera_instance_url>"],
  "method": ["GET", "POST", "PUT", "DELETE", "HEAD"],
  "responseHeader": ["Content-Type", "Content-Range"],
  "maxAgeSeconds": 3600
}
```

[roles]: ../orgs-and-teams/roles.mdx
