platform_versioned_docs/version-24.1.0/enterprise/data-studios.mdx, before:

---
title: "Data studios deployment"
description: Deploy Seqera Platform with Data studios
date: "12 Jun 2024"
tags: [docker, compose, kubernetes, data, studios, deployment]
---

## Docker compose

This guide assumes that all services will be run in the same container as the rest of the platform services.

To run data studios in docker compose setup uncomment following values in the `_templates/docker/data-studios.env` file:

```dotenv
# Data studios settings
TOWER_DATA_STUDIO_ALLOWED_WORKSPACES=<ALLOWED WORKSPACES>

# Enable Data Explorer to enable mounting data to your data studios
TOWER_DATA_EXPLORER_ENABLED=true
TOWER_DATA_EXPLORER_CLOUD_DISABLED_WORKSPACES=

TOWER_DATA_STUDIO_CONNECT_URL=<YOUR CONNECT URL, SAME AS `CONNECT_PROXY_URL` IN `data-studios.env` >
TOWER_OIDC_REGISTRATION_INITIAL_ACCESS_TOKEN=<YOUR INITIAL ACCESS TOKEN, IDEANTICAL AS `INITIAL_ACCESS_TOKEN` in `data-studios.env`>
TOWER_OIDC_PEM_PATH=<PATH TO PEM FILE>
```

Fill in the values for `_templates/docker/data-studios.env` and uncomment the following lines in the `_templates/docker/docker-compose.yml` file:

```yaml
  connect-proxy:
    image: cr.seqera.io/private/nf-tower-enterprise/data-studio/tower-connect-proxy:0.6.14
    platform: linux/amd64
    env_file:
      - data-studios.env
    networks:
      - frontend
      - backend
    ports:
      - 9090:9090
    restart: always
    depends_on:
      - redis

  connect-server:
    image: cr.seqera.io/private/nf-tower-enterprise/data-studio/tower-connect-server:v0.6.14
    platform: linux/amd64
    env_file:
      - data-studios.env
    networks:
      - backend
    ports:
      - 7070:7070
    restart: always
```

An RSA key is required for the Data Studios functionality. Generate your key and provide the path to it in the
`TOWER_OIDC_PEM_PATH` variable in the `data-studios.env` file. Next mount the `pem` file in the `backend` service in the `docker-compose.yml` file.

See this example in the configuration with `data-studios-rsa.pem` file mounted in the `backend` service:
```yaml
  backend:
    volumes:
      - $PWD/data-studios-rsa.pem:/data-studios-rsa.pem
```


## DNS setup

The proxy domain (`CONNECT_PROXY_URL`) has to be a subdomain of main platform domain (example: if the platform domain is
`tower.io`, then proxy domain should be `example.tower.io`).
Data Studios requires a wildcard DNS record that will match requests for non-existent subdomains.
It is specified by a `*` as part of the domain name, example: `*.tower.io`. It should be pointed to the port 9090.

Example of setup:
```
*.tower.io -> 9090
tower.io -> 8000
```

Additionally a valid wildcard ssl certificate to cover the third level domain is required.

Commit message:

add a cost warning to the multi-lvl subdomains

platform_versioned_docs/version-24.1.0/enterprise/data-studios.mdx, after:

---
title: "Data studios deployment"
description: Deploy Seqera Platform with Data studios
date: "12 Jun 2024"
tags: [docker, compose, kubernetes, data, studios, deployment]
---

## Docker compose

This guide assumes that all services will be run in the same container as the rest of the platform services.

To run data studios in docker compose setup uncomment following values in the `_templates/docker/data-studios.env` file:

```dotenv
# Data studios settings
TOWER_DATA_STUDIO_ALLOWED_WORKSPACES=<ALLOWED WORKSPACES>

# Enable Data Explorer to enable mounting data to your data studios
TOWER_DATA_EXPLORER_ENABLED=true
TOWER_DATA_EXPLORER_CLOUD_DISABLED_WORKSPACES=

TOWER_DATA_STUDIO_CONNECT_URL=<YOUR CONNECT URL, SAME AS `CONNECT_PROXY_URL` IN `data-studios.env` >
TOWER_OIDC_REGISTRATION_INITIAL_ACCESS_TOKEN=<YOUR INITIAL ACCESS TOKEN, IDEANTICAL AS `INITIAL_ACCESS_TOKEN` in `data-studios.env`>
TOWER_OIDC_PEM_PATH=<PATH TO PEM FILE>
```

Fill in the values for `_templates/docker/data-studios.env` and uncomment the following lines in the `_templates/docker/docker-compose.yml` file:

```yaml
  connect-proxy:
    image: cr.seqera.io/private/nf-tower-enterprise/data-studio/tower-connect-proxy:0.6.14
    platform: linux/amd64
    env_file:
      - data-studios.env
    networks:
      - frontend
      - backend
    ports:
      - 9090:9090
    restart: always
    depends_on:
      - redis

  connect-server:
    image: cr.seqera.io/private/nf-tower-enterprise/data-studio/tower-connect-server:v0.6.14
    platform: linux/amd64
    env_file:
      - data-studios.env
    networks:
      - backend
    ports:
      - 7070:7070
    restart: always
```

An RSA key is required for the Data Studios functionality. Generate your key and provide the path to it in the
`TOWER_OIDC_PEM_PATH` variable in the `data-studios.env` file. Next mount the `pem` file in the `backend` service in the `docker-compose.yml` file.

See this example in the configuration with `data-studios-rsa.pem` file mounted in the `backend` service:
```yaml
  backend:
    volumes:
      - $PWD/data-studios-rsa.pem:/data-studios-rsa.pem
```


## DNS setup

The proxy domain (`CONNECT_PROXY_URL`) has to be a subdomain of main platform domain (example: if the platform domain is
`tower.io`, then proxy domain should be `example.tower.io`).
Data Studios requires a wildcard DNS record that will match requests for non-existent subdomains.
It is specified by a `*` as part of the domain name, example: `*.tower.io`. It should be pointed to the port 9090.

Example of setup:
```
*.tower.io -> 9090
tower.io -> 8000
```

Additionally, a valid wildcard ssl certificate to cover the third level domain is required.

!!! warning It is recommended to use only a third level domain if possible, as the cost may increase with the number of subdomains.
