platform_versioned_docs/version-24.2/enterprise/prerequisites/azure.mdx, before:

---
title: "Azure"
description: Prerequisites for Azure deployments
date: "12 Apr 2023"
tags: [azure, prerequisites, configuration]
---

This page describes the infrastructure and other prerequisites for deploying Seqera Platform Enterprise on Microsoft Azure.

Run the Seqera container with [Docker](../docker-compose.mdx) on an Azure VM instance or with [Kubernetes](../kubernetes.mdx) on an Azure AKS cluster. You must satisfy the requirements for your installation target:

- A resource group and a storage account are required to use Azure. See [Azure setup](#azure-setup) below to provision these resources.
- **SMTP server**: If you don't have an email server, see [Azure's recommended method of sending email][azure-sendmail]. Microsoft recommends [Microsoft 365][msft-365] or the third party service [SendGrid][sendgrid].
- **MySQL database**: An external database such as [Azure Database for MySQL][azure-db-create-portal] is highly recommended for production deployments.
- **SSL certificate**: An SSL certificate is required for your Seqera instance to handle HTTPS traffic.

  :::caution
  HTTP-only implementations **must** set the `TOWER_ENABLE_UNSAFE_MODE=true` environment variable in the Seqera hosting infrastructure to enable user login. HTTP must not be used in production environments.
  :::

- **DNS**: (Optional) DNS is required to support human-readable domain names and load-balanced traffic. See [Azure DNS][azure-dns] to learn about domain aquisition and record management.

These decisions must be made before you continue as they impact how Seqera configuration files are updated.

### Prerequisites for Docker

A Linux VM instance is required to deploy Seqera Enterprise via Docker Compose. See the [detailed instructions](#azure-setup) to provision a VM instance for this purpose.

### Prerequisites for AKS

An [Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)][aks-walkthrough] cluster is required to deploy Seqera Enterprise via Kubernetes.

## Azure setup

Set up commonly used Azure services for Seqera deployment.

### Azure resource group

Create a resource group:
- [Via the Azure portal][azure-rg-portal]
- [Via the Azure CLI][azure-rg-cli]

<details>
  <summary>Create a resource group via Azure portal</summary>

  1. Sign in to the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com).
  1. Select **Resource groups**.
  1. Select **Add**.
  1. Enter the following values:
      - **Subscription**: Select your Azure subscription.
      - **Resource group**: Enter a new resource group name (such as `towerrg`).
      - **Region**: Select the region where your assets will exist (such as `East US`).
  1. Select **Review and Create**.
  1. Select **Create**.

</details>
<details>
  <summary>Create a resource group via Azure CLI</summary>

  Run the `az group create` command:

  ```bash
  az group create --name $MY_RESOURCE_GROUP_NAME --location $REGION
  ```

</details>

### Azure storage account

Create a storage account:
- [Via the Azure portal][azure-storage-portal]
- [Via the Azure CLI][azure-storage-cli]

<details>
  <summary>Create a storage account via Azure portal</summary>

  1. Sign in to the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com).
  1. Select **Storage accounts**.
  1. Select **Create**.
  1. Enter the following values:
      - **Subscription**: Select your Azure subscription.
      - **Resource group**: Enter your resource group name.
      - **Storage account name**: Enter a new storage account name (such as `towerstorage`).
      - **Region**: Select the region where your Resource Group exists (such as `East US`).
      - **Performance**: Select `Standard`.
      - **Redundancy**: Select `Geo-redundant storage (GRS)`.
  1. Select **Review + create**. The default values are used in the other tabs. See [Create a storage account][azure-storage-portal] for further details on each setting.
  1. Select **Create**.

</details>
<details>
  <summary>Create a storage account via Azure CLI</summary>

  Run the `az storage account create` command:

  ```bash
  az storage account create -n towerstorage -g towerrg -l eastus --sku Standard_GRS
  ```

</details>

### Azure MySQL DB instance 

External databases for Seqera Enterprise deployments require:
- A **MySQL8 Community** DB instance.
- At least **2 vCPUs**, **8 GB memory**, and **30 GB** SSD storage.
- Manual MySQL user and database schema creation. See [Database configuration](../configuration/overview.mdx#seqera-and-redis-databases) for more details.

:::caution 
Recommended instance performance and storage requirements depend on the number of parallel pipelines you expect to run. 
:::

Create an Azure MySQL DB instance:
- [Via Azure portal][azure-db-create-portal]
- [Via Azure CLI][azure-db-create-cli]

<details>
  <summary>Create a MySQL DB instance via Azure portal</summary>

  1. In the Azure portal, search for and select **Azure Database for MySQL servers**.
  1. Select **Create**.
  1. On the **Select Azure Database for MySQL deployment option** pane, select **Flexible server** as the deployment option.
  1. On the **Basics** tab, enter or select the following:
      - Your **Subscription** name 
      - Your **Resource group** name 
      - A **Server name** such as `towerdbserver`
      - Your **Region**
      - The **Workload type**, based on your required `max_connections`
      - **High availability** — high availability is recommended for production deployments 
      - **Standby availability zone** — standby server zone location
      - **MySQL version** — 8.0 
      - An **Admin username** to access the server 
      - A **Password** to access the server 
      - Your **Compute + storage** requirements, considering the minimum performance requirements outlined above 
  1. Configure networking options. 
  1. Select **Review + create**, then **Create**. 

</details>
<details>
  <summary>Create a MySQL DB instance via Azure CLI</summary>

  1. Run `az mysql flexible-server create` to create your server:

      ```bash
      az mysql flexible-server create --location eastus --resource-group towerrg --name towerdbserver --admin-user username --admin-password password --sku-name Standard_B2ms --tier Burstable --public-access 0.0.0.0 --storage-size 30 --version 8.0 --high-availability ZoneRedundant --zone 1 --standby-zone 3 --storage-auto-grow Enabled --iops 500
      ```

      The `sku-name`, `tier`, `storage-size`, and `iops` values depend on your performance requirements.

  1. Run `az mysql flexible-server db create` to create a database on your server:

      ```bash 
      az mysql flexible-server db create --resource-group towerrg
                                      --server-name towerdbserver
                                      --database-name towerdb
      ```                                

</details>

After your database is created, update your Seqera [configuration](../configuration/overview.mdx#seqera-and-redis-databases) with the database hostname, Admin username, and password.

:::note
When creating a MySQL user, use the `USER@HOSTNAME` format for the `TOWER_DB_USER` environment variable. For Azure managed MySQL, it's [recommended][azure-db-config] to pass an explicit `serverTimezone` to the `TOWER_DB_URL` environment variable, which (depending on your configuration) may be `UTC`. The DB connection string should be similar to `jdbc:mysql://towerdbserver.mysql.database.azure.com/towerdb?serverTimezone=UTC`.
:::

### Azure Linux VM

Create a VM instance with these attributes:

- Use **default values** unless otherwise specified.
- At least **2 CPUS** and **8GB RAM**.
- **Ubuntu Server 22.04 LTS - Gen2** image.
- **Accessible by SSH**.

Create an Azure Linux VM:
- [Via the Azure portal][azure-linux-vm-portal]
- [Via the Azure CLI][azure-linux-vm-cli]

<details>
  <summary>Create a VM via Azure portal</summary>

  1. Under **Basics**, select your **Subscription** and **Resource group**.
  1. Under **Instance details**:
      - Enter a **VM name**
      - Select the same **Region** as your resource group.
      - Select the **Ubuntu Server 20.04 LTS - Gen2** image.
      - Do not set the VM as an **Azure Spot instance**.
      - Select the **Size** — B2ps v2 or higher is recommended.
  1. Under **Administrator account**:
      - Select **SSH public key**
      - Enter a **username**
      - Select **Generate new key pair**
      - Enter a **Key pair name**
  1. Under **Inbound port rules**:
      - Select **Allow selected ports**
      - Select **SSH (22)**, **HTTP (8000)**, **HTTP (80)**, and **HTTPS (443)** (required for SSL termination in production environments) from the dropdown
  1. Select **Review + create** at the bottom of the page.
  1. Review your VM details, then select **Create**.
  1. When the **Generate new key pair** window opens, select **Download private key and create resource**. Your key file will be download as `myKey.pem`. Note the path to which it was downloaded.
  1. On the page for your new VM, copy the **Public IP address**. 

  To make the VM's IP address static:

  1. Enter **Public IP addresses** in the search.
  1. Under **Services**, select **Public IP addresses**.
  1. On the **Public IP addresses** page, select the entry containing your VM name. A page opens with that IP's details.
  1. Select **Configuration** from the left-hand navigation panel.
  1. Confirm that your IP address assignment is **Static**.
  1. Do not add a custom DNS name label to the VM.

  To allow ingress on port 8000:

  1. Enter **Virtual Machines** in the search bar.
  1. Under **Services**, select **Virtual machines**.
  1. On the **Virtual machines** page, select your VM name to navigate to the VM details.
  1. Select **Networking** from the left-hand navigation panel.
  1. **Add inbound port rule** for port 8000.

  To allow ingress on port 443 (required for SSL/TLS termination in production environments):

  1. Enter **Virtual Machines** in the search bar.
  1. Under **Services**, select **Virtual machines**.
  1. On the **Virtual machines** page, select your VM name to navigate to the VM details.
  1. Select **Networking** from the left-hand navigation panel.
  1. **Add inbound port rule** for port 443.

  Connect to the VM via SSH:

  1. On a macOS or Linux machine, open a terminal and set read-only permission on the `myKey.pem` file with `chmod 400 ~/Downloads/myKey.pem`.
  1. Install Docker:
      1.  [Install Docker using the apt repository][docker].
      1.  Confirm that Docker Compose is installed:

          ```bash
          docker compose version
          Docker Compose version v2.24.1
          ```

</details>
<details>
  <summary>Create a VM via Azure CLI</summary>

  Run `az vm create`:

  ```bash 
  az vm create \
    --resource-group towerrg \
    --name towervm \
    --image Canonical:0001-com-ubuntu-minimal-jammy:minimal-22_04-lts-gen2:latest \
    --admin-username username \
    --assign-identity \
    --generate-ssh-keys \
    --public-ip-sku Standard
  ```

</details>

## Seqera container images

Seqera Platform Enterprise is distributed as a collection of Docker containers available through the Seqera
container registry ([cr.seqera.io](https://cr.seqera.io)). Contact [support](https://support.seqera.io) to get your container access credentials. After you've received your credentials, retrieve the Seqera container images on your Azure VM:

1. Retrieve the **username** and **password** you received from Seqera support.
1. Run the following Docker command to authenticate to the registry (using the `username` and `password` values copied in step 1):

    ```bash
    docker login -u '/\<USERNAME\>/' -p '/\PASSWORD\>/' cr.seqera.io
    ```

1. Pull the Seqera container images with the following commands:

    ```bash
    docker pull cr.seqera.io/private/nf-tower-enterprise/backend:v24.2.2

    docker pull cr.seqera.io/private/nf-tower-enterprise/frontend:v24.2.2
    ```

## Next steps 

See [Configuration](../configuration/overview.mdx). 

[docker]: https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/ubuntu/#install-using-the-repository
[aks-walkthrough]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/kubernetes-walkthrough-portal
[azure-db-create-cli]: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/mysql/flexible-server/quickstart-create-server-cli
[azure-db-create-portal]: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/mysql/flexible-server/quickstart-create-server-portal
[azure-db-config]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/mysql/connect-java#prepare-a-configuration-file-to-connect-to-azure-database-for-mysql
[azure-dns]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/dns/dns-overview
[azure-linux-vm-cli]: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/linux/quick-create-cli#create-the-virtual-machine
[azure-linux-vm-portal]: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/linux/quick-create-portal?tabs=ubuntu
[azure-rg-cli]: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/linux/quick-create-cli#create-a-resource-group
[azure-rg-portal]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-resource-manager/management/manage-resource-groups-portal
[azure-sendmail]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-network/troubleshoot-outbound-smtp-connectivity#recommended-method-of-sending-email 
[azure-storage-portal]: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-ca/azure/storage/common/storage-account-create?tabs=azure-portal#create-a-storage-account-1
[azure-storage-cli]: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/storage/account?view=azure-cli-latest#az-storage-account-create
[msft-365]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/exchange/mail-flow-best-practices/how-to-set-up-a-multifunction-device-or-application-to-send-email-using-microsoft-365-or-office-365
[sendgrid]: https://docs.sendgrid.com/for-developers/partners/microsoft-azure-2021

Commit message:

Add steps to handle Azure MySQL foreign keys (#330)
* Add steps to handle Azure MySQL foreign keys

- https://seqera.atlassian.net/browse/EDU-379

platform_versioned_docs/version-24.2/enterprise/prerequisites/azure.mdx, after:

---
title: "Azure"
description: Prerequisites for Azure deployments
date: "12 Apr 2023"
tags: [azure, prerequisites, configuration]
---

This page describes the infrastructure and other prerequisites for deploying Seqera Platform Enterprise on Microsoft Azure.

Run the Seqera container with [Docker](../docker-compose.mdx) on an Azure VM instance or with [Kubernetes](../kubernetes.mdx) on an Azure AKS cluster. You must satisfy the requirements for your installation target:

- A resource group and a storage account are required to use Azure. See [Azure setup](#azure-setup) below to provision these resources.
- **SMTP server**: If you don't have an email server, see [Azure's recommended method of sending email][azure-sendmail]. Microsoft recommends [Microsoft 365][msft-365] or the third party service [SendGrid][sendgrid].
- **MySQL database**: An external database such as [Azure Database for MySQL][azure-db-create-portal] is highly recommended for production deployments.
- **SSL certificate**: An SSL certificate is required for your Seqera instance to handle HTTPS traffic.

  :::caution
  HTTP-only implementations **must** set the `TOWER_ENABLE_UNSAFE_MODE=true` environment variable in the Seqera hosting infrastructure to enable user login. HTTP must not be used in production environments.
  :::

- **DNS**: (Optional) DNS is required to support human-readable domain names and load-balanced traffic. See [Azure DNS][azure-dns] to learn about domain aquisition and record management.

These decisions must be made before you continue as they impact how Seqera configuration files are updated.

### Prerequisites for Docker

A Linux VM instance is required to deploy Seqera Enterprise via Docker Compose. See the [detailed instructions](#azure-setup) to provision a VM instance for this purpose.

### Prerequisites for AKS

An [Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)][aks-walkthrough] cluster is required to deploy Seqera Enterprise via Kubernetes.

## Azure setup

Set up commonly used Azure services for Seqera deployment.

### Azure resource group

Create a resource group:
- [Via the Azure portal][azure-rg-portal]
- [Via the Azure CLI][azure-rg-cli]

<details>
  <summary>Create a resource group via Azure portal</summary>

  1. Sign in to the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com).
  1. Select **Resource groups**.
  1. Select **Add**.
  1. Enter the following values:
      - **Subscription**: Select your Azure subscription.
      - **Resource group**: Enter a new resource group name (such as `towerrg`).
      - **Region**: Select the region where your assets will exist (such as `East US`).
  1. Select **Review and Create**.
  1. Select **Create**.

</details>
<details>
  <summary>Create a resource group via Azure CLI</summary>

  Run the `az group create` command:

  ```bash
  az group create --name $MY_RESOURCE_GROUP_NAME --location $REGION
  ```

</details>

### Azure storage account

Create a storage account:
- [Via the Azure portal][azure-storage-portal]
- [Via the Azure CLI][azure-storage-cli]

<details>
  <summary>Create a storage account via Azure portal</summary>

  1. Sign in to the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com).
  1. Select **Storage accounts**.
  1. Select **Create**.
  1. Enter the following values:
      - **Subscription**: Select your Azure subscription.
      - **Resource group**: Enter your resource group name.
      - **Storage account name**: Enter a new storage account name (such as `towerstorage`).
      - **Region**: Select the region where your Resource Group exists (such as `East US`).
      - **Performance**: Select `Standard`.
      - **Redundancy**: Select `Geo-redundant storage (GRS)`.
  1. Select **Review + create**. The default values are used in the other tabs. See [Create a storage account][azure-storage-portal] for further details on each setting.
  1. Select **Create**.

</details>
<details>
  <summary>Create a storage account via Azure CLI</summary>

  Run the `az storage account create` command:

  ```bash
  az storage account create -n towerstorage -g towerrg -l eastus --sku Standard_GRS
  ```

</details>

### Azure MySQL DB instance 

External databases for Seqera Enterprise deployments require:
- A **MySQL8 Community** DB instance.
- At least **2 vCPUs**, **8 GB memory**, and **30 GB** SSD storage.
- Manual MySQL user and database schema creation. See [Database configuration](../configuration/overview.mdx#seqera-and-redis-databases) for more details.

:::caution 
Recommended instance performance and storage requirements depend on the number of parallel pipelines you expect to run. 
:::

Create an Azure MySQL DB instance:
- [Via Azure portal][azure-db-create-portal]
- [Via Azure CLI][azure-db-create-cli]

<details>
  <summary>Create a MySQL DB instance via Azure portal</summary>

  1. In the Azure portal, search for and select **Azure Database for MySQL servers**.
  1. Select **Create**.
  1. On the **Select Azure Database for MySQL deployment option** pane, select **Flexible server** as the deployment option.
  1. On the **Basics** tab, enter or select the following:
      - Your **Subscription** name
      - Your **Resource group** name
      - A **Server name** such as `towerdbserver`
      - Your **Region**
      - The **Workload type**, based on your required `max_connections`
      - **High availability** — high availability is recommended for production deployments
      - **Standby availability zone** — standby server zone location
      - **MySQL version** — 8.0
      - An **Admin username** to access the server
      - A **Password** to access the server
      - Your **Compute + storage** requirements, considering the minimum performance requirements outlined above
  1. Configure networking options.
  1. Select **Review + create**, then **Create**.
  1. Disable invisible primary keys, which can interfere with upgrades to newer releases of Seqera Platform Enterprise. Azure Database for MySQL creates invisible primary keys automatically by default. For more information, see [Steps to disable a GIPK][azure-gipk].

</details>
<details>
  <summary>Create a MySQL DB instance via Azure CLI</summary>

  1. Run `az mysql flexible-server create` to create your server:

      ```bash
      az mysql flexible-server create --location eastus --resource-group towerrg --name towerdbserver --admin-user username --admin-password password --sku-name Standard_B2ms --tier Burstable --public-access 0.0.0.0 --storage-size 30 --version 8.0 --high-availability ZoneRedundant --zone 1 --standby-zone 3 --storage-auto-grow Enabled --iops 500
      ```

      The `sku-name`, `tier`, `storage-size`, and `iops` values depend on your performance requirements.

  1. Run `az mysql flexible-server db create` to create a database on your server:

      ```bash
      az mysql flexible-server db create --resource-group towerrg
                                      --server-name towerdbserver
                                      --database-name towerdb
      ```                                
  1. Disable invisible primary keys, which can interfere with upgrades to newer releases of Seqera Platform Enterprise. Azure Database for MySQL creates invisible primary keys automatically by default. For more information, see [Steps to disable a GIPK][azure-gipk].

</details>

After your database is created, update your Seqera [configuration](../configuration/overview.mdx#seqera-and-redis-databases) with the database hostname, Admin username, and password.

:::note
When creating a MySQL user, use the `USER@HOSTNAME` format for the `TOWER_DB_USER` environment variable. For Azure managed MySQL, it's [recommended][azure-db-config] to pass an explicit `serverTimezone` to the `TOWER_DB_URL` environment variable, which (depending on your configuration) may be `UTC`. The DB connection string should be similar to `jdbc:mysql://towerdbserver.mysql.database.azure.com/towerdb?serverTimezone=UTC`.
:::

### Azure Linux VM

Create a VM instance with these attributes:

- Use **default values** unless otherwise specified.
- At least **2 CPUS** and **8GB RAM**.
- **Ubuntu Server 22.04 LTS - Gen2** image.
- **Accessible by SSH**.

Create an Azure Linux VM:
- [Via the Azure portal][azure-linux-vm-portal]
- [Via the Azure CLI][azure-linux-vm-cli]

<details>
  <summary>Create a VM via Azure portal</summary>

  1. Under **Basics**, select your **Subscription** and **Resource group**.
  1. Under **Instance details**:
      - Enter a **VM name**
      - Select the same **Region** as your resource group.
      - Select the **Ubuntu Server 20.04 LTS - Gen2** image.
      - Do not set the VM as an **Azure Spot instance**.
      - Select the **Size** — B2ps v2 or higher is recommended.
  1. Under **Administrator account**:
      - Select **SSH public key**
      - Enter a **username**
      - Select **Generate new key pair**
      - Enter a **Key pair name**
  1. Under **Inbound port rules**:
      - Select **Allow selected ports**
      - Select **SSH (22)**, **HTTP (8000)**, **HTTP (80)**, and **HTTPS (443)** (required for SSL termination in production environments) from the dropdown
  1. Select **Review + create** at the bottom of the page.
  1. Review your VM details, then select **Create**.
  1. When the **Generate new key pair** window opens, select **Download private key and create resource**. Your key file will be download as `myKey.pem`. Note the path to which it was downloaded.
  1. On the page for your new VM, copy the **Public IP address**. 

  To make the VM's IP address static:

  1. Enter **Public IP addresses** in the search.
  1. Under **Services**, select **Public IP addresses**.
  1. On the **Public IP addresses** page, select the entry containing your VM name. A page opens with that IP's details.
  1. Select **Configuration** from the left-hand navigation panel.
  1. Confirm that your IP address assignment is **Static**.
  1. Do not add a custom DNS name label to the VM.

  To allow ingress on port 8000:

  1. Enter **Virtual Machines** in the search bar.
  1. Under **Services**, select **Virtual machines**.
  1. On the **Virtual machines** page, select your VM name to navigate to the VM details.
  1. Select **Networking** from the left-hand navigation panel.
  1. **Add inbound port rule** for port 8000.

  To allow ingress on port 443 (required for SSL/TLS termination in production environments):

  1. Enter **Virtual Machines** in the search bar.
  1. Under **Services**, select **Virtual machines**.
  1. On the **Virtual machines** page, select your VM name to navigate to the VM details.
  1. Select **Networking** from the left-hand navigation panel.
  1. **Add inbound port rule** for port 443.

  Connect to the VM via SSH:

  1. On a macOS or Linux machine, open a terminal and set read-only permission on the `myKey.pem` file with `chmod 400 ~/Downloads/myKey.pem`.
  1. Install Docker:
      1.  [Install Docker using the apt repository][docker].
      1.  Confirm that Docker Compose is installed:

          ```bash
          docker compose version
          Docker Compose version v2.24.1
          ```

</details>
<details>
  <summary>Create a VM via Azure CLI</summary>

  Run `az vm create`:

  ```bash 
  az vm create \
    --resource-group towerrg \
    --name towervm \
    --image Canonical:0001-com-ubuntu-minimal-jammy:minimal-22_04-lts-gen2:latest \
    --admin-username username \
    --assign-identity \
    --generate-ssh-keys \
    --public-ip-sku Standard
  ```

</details>

## Seqera container images

Seqera Platform Enterprise is distributed as a collection of Docker containers available through the Seqera
container registry ([cr.seqera.io](https://cr.seqera.io)). Contact [support](https://support.seqera.io) to get your container access credentials. After you've received your credentials, retrieve the Seqera container images on your Azure VM:

1. Retrieve the **username** and **password** you received from Seqera support.
1. Run the following Docker command to authenticate to the registry (using the `username` and `password` values copied in step 1):

    ```bash
    docker login -u '/\<USERNAME\>/' -p '/\PASSWORD\>/' cr.seqera.io
    ```

1. Pull the Seqera container images with the following commands:

    ```bash
    docker pull cr.seqera.io/private/nf-tower-enterprise/backend:v24.2.2

    docker pull cr.seqera.io/private/nf-tower-enterprise/frontend:v24.2.2
    ```

## Next steps 

See [Configuration](../configuration/overview.mdx). 

[docker]: https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/ubuntu/#install-using-the-repository
[aks-walkthrough]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/kubernetes-walkthrough-portal
[azure-db-create-cli]: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/mysql/flexible-server/quickstart-create-server-cli
[azure-db-create-portal]: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/mysql/flexible-server/quickstart-create-server-portal
[azure-db-config]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/mysql/connect-java#prepare-a-configuration-file-to-connect-to-azure-database-for-mysql
[azure-gipk]: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/mysql/flexible-server/concepts-limitations#steps-to-disable-a-gipk
[azure-dns]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/dns/dns-overview
[azure-linux-vm-cli]: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/linux/quick-create-cli#create-the-virtual-machine
[azure-linux-vm-portal]: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/linux/quick-create-portal?tabs=ubuntu
[azure-rg-cli]: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/linux/quick-create-cli#create-a-resource-group
[azure-rg-portal]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-resource-manager/management/manage-resource-groups-portal
[azure-sendmail]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-network/troubleshoot-outbound-smtp-connectivity#recommended-method-of-sending-email 
[azure-storage-portal]: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-ca/azure/storage/common/storage-account-create?tabs=azure-portal#create-a-storage-account-1
[azure-storage-cli]: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/storage/account?view=azure-cli-latest#az-storage-account-create
[msft-365]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/exchange/mail-flow-best-practices/how-to-set-up-a-multifunction-device-or-application-to-send-email-using-microsoft-365-or-office-365
[sendgrid]: https://docs.sendgrid.com/for-developers/partners/microsoft-azure-2021
