---
title: Seqera Cloud v24.2.0_cycle26
date: 2024-10-28
tags: [seqera cloud]
---

### Seqera Cloud authentication updates

Seqera Platform Cloud has migrated to a new authentication provider, which includes two major changes to the login flow. 

#### Passwords for email login 

- Users signing in via email: The next time you sign in to Seqera Cloud, select the option to create a new account — "Create one" — and add a password for your existing account.  All your existing account information will be preserved and all future sign-ins can be completed with your new password.  
 
- Users using Github/Google sign-in: You are not required to define a password for your account and shouldn’t see any changes on your next sign-in.  

#### Account linking 

Users that sign in with multiple accounts associated with the same email address: You will be prompted to optionally merge your accounts into a single account. This will merge all your work across the two different accounts into the same account and give you the option to sign in via either method of authentication.  

If you choose not to merge accounts, you will not be prompted again. If you wish to merge accounts later, or would like to merge accounts with different email addresses, contact [Seqera Support](https://support.seqera.io).  

### Feature updates and improvements

- Data Studios now support GPUs.
- The pipeline parameters input form now supports JSON schema draft 2020-12.
- Augment Data Studios images with custom Conda environment.
- Data studio creation now includes YAML validation.
- Data Studios build stats are now included in the Dashboard.
- New data studios now include "Add only" and "Add and start" actions.

### Bug fixes 

- Add back to login button in authentication error screen.
- Add custom token cookie login handler for Nextflow requests to receive authentication cookies.
- Data Studios UI fixes.
- Jedis connection pool config which caused potential instabilities.
- Improve Data Studios error messaging.
- Delete Data Studio checkpoint on build failure.
- Update default Data Studios tool versions.
- Failed Data Studios can now be deleted.
- Set launch form to parameters step view by default when a pipeline schema is present, regardless of specification.
- Dashboard persisted filters exclude workspace IDs the user no longer has access to.
- Do not fetch info for **INVALID** status pipelines, fetch for all other statuses including **DISABLED**.
- Fixed a problem with Azure Entra credential creation.
- Return an empty list of data studios when receiving an invalid status.
- Fallback to primary compute environment when launching a shared pipeline without an associated compute environment from a private workspace.