---
title: Seqera Cloud v24.3.0_024e9bb
date: 2025-01-24
tags: [seqera cloud]
---

## Breaking changes

- Restore `errorStrategy` and `maxRetries` default Nextflow config for AWS and GCP launches. Platform will not overwrite existing error strategy coded in the pipeline repository.
- If you want to automatically retry on task failures (e.g., from spot reclamations), you will now need to explicitly set `errorStrategy` and `maxRetries`.
- Automatic spot retries in AWS and GCP now require active enablement. Alternatively Nextflow handles the generic failure at the Nextflow level.

**You can revert to the default setting used in Nextflow prior to 24.10 with the following configuration options:**
```
aws.batch.maxSpotAttempts = 5
google.batch.maxSpotAttempts = 5
```
Set `task.maxRetries` to a non-zero value to restore Platform to prior behaviour.

**How do I retry Spot failures while making them visible?**

There is no mechanism in Nextflow to specifically report Spot retries. However you can set `process.maxRetries = 5` to retry all failures (including Spot reclamations) a specified number of times before failure.

## Feature updates and improvements

### Studios

- Added data studio API endpoints to the OpenAPI spec.

### Permissions and roles

- New organization types added to allow free tier users to monitor their usage and limits.

### Workflows

- Restore `errorStrategy` default Nextflow config for AWS and GCP launches. The Nextflow job now correctly terminates after pipeline completion.
- The system now automatically terminates Azure jobs after all tasks complete.

### Compute environments

- Updated list of EC2 families with NVMe disks available.

### Launchpad

- Send only added/updated run parameters when launching a pipeline. This includes all defaults and parameters passed during the launch.

### Pipelines

- Improved error messaging when pipeline info can't be fetched indicates whether the issue is due to a missing resource, or failed authentication due to expired credentials.

### UI/UX

- New dynamic page title for easy bookmarking.

### General

- Upgraded to Angular 17
- Bumped Nextflow launcher to 24.10.3

## Bug fixes

### Pipelines

- Allow unsetting `schemaName` when editing a pipeline.
- Take into account the alternative `mainScript` path.

### General

- Use `preferred_username` as fallback email field for OIDC login.
- Drop the last characters in job definition name, if longer than the prescribed limit.
- Prohibited duplicate Git credentials and added tie-break on `lastUpdated` for existing duplicates. Going forward, the system gives preference to the credentials updated last when multiple candidates exist. Additionally added a duplicate check when creating new credentials, to avoid new duplicate cases.

### Compute environments

- Compute environment creation form allows pre- and post-run scripts to be longer than the accepted value of 1024 characters.

### Workflows

- Disabled reset selection on data change in workflow list component.
