---
title: Seqera Cloud v25.1.0_cycle10 - cycle12
date: 2025-05-06
tags: [seqera cloud]
---

## Seqera Compute

[Seqera Compute](https://docs.seqera.io/platform-cloud/compute-envs/seqera-compute) is now in public preview. Seqera Compute is a fully managed, optimized compute environment which eliminates infrastructure complexity by automating environment setup, resource provisioning, scaling, and optimization.

## Platform interface updates

### Pipeline run details

The [pipeline run details](https://docs.seqera.io/platform-cloud/monitoring/run-details) page has been refreshed and includes improvements such as:

- Clear, dynamic view of pipeline execution in real time via a progress bar.
- A dedicated **Run info** tab with a centralized view of run metadata and status details.
- Improved navigation tabs for **Tasks**, **Logs**, **Metrics**, and **Containers**.

### New Seqera Platform sidebar

The Platform top navigation has been replaced with a sidebar for improved navigation.

## AWS Cloud compute environment

The [new AWS Cloud compute environment](https://docs.seqera.io/platform-cloud/compute-envs/aws-cloud) supports faster startup time, simplified configuration, and fewer AWS dependencies. Using this compute environment, Studios can now be launched on Spot instances. The AWS Cloud compute environment is best suited to run Studios and small to medium-sized pipelines. It offers more predictable compute pricing, given the fixed instance type. It spins up a standalone EC2 instance and executes a Nextflow pipeline or Studio session with a local executor on the EC2 machine. At the end of the execution, the instance is terminated.

## API documentation improvements

The [Seqera Platform API documentation](https://docs.seqera.io/platform-api/seqera-api) has been updated. Featuring overview pages with parameter and request body tables, categorized by Platform entity (compute environments, pipelines, etc.), the documentation now provides easier reference and detailed request examples.

## Other new features and improvements

- **Fusion**
  - Add Fusion snapshots to AWS Batch.
  - Enable `DRAINING` status for Spot instance reclamation. When an instance is in DRAINING status, no new task can be scheduled on it. See [Configuring Amazon ECS Linux container instances to receive Spot Instance notices](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/developerguide/spot-instance-draining-linux-container.html) for more information.
  - AWS Cloud compute environment defaults to the public Seqera AMI if no AMI ID is specified during compute environment creation.
- **Studios**
  - Add Spot option for AWS Cloud compute environment.
- Support markdown rendering for Nextflow object field `help_text` and `description` properties.

:::note
This changelog includes releases

- v25.1.0-cycle10_37f83e6
- v25.1.0-cycle11_cde3ebf
- v25.1.0-cycle11_0ff195a
- v25.1.0-cycle12_3d9ec0c
- v25.1.0-cycle12_8bf53cd
- v25.1.0-cycle12_c98e9a5
- v25.1.0-cycle12_1d46e0f
- v25.1.0-cycle12_61865f4
- v25.1.0-cycle12_fbec4ef
- v25.1.0-cycle12_20df528
  :::
