---
title: Seqera Cloud v25.1.0_cycle7
date: 2025-04-23
tags: [seqera cloud]
---

## Feature updates and improvements

### Data Explorer

- You can now drag and drop multiple folders or files to upload them to your cloud bucket, or you can select **Upload**, then select multiple files to upload.

### Compute environments

- Changed the default for the single VM compute environment to the Seqera-optimized AMI. When not specifying an AMI during compute environment creation, the system defaults to the Seqera-optimized AMI.

### Workflows

- Added a more detailed warning for workflow cleanup issues that are related to access restrictions to the AWS Batch compute environment.
- Added task status badges with icons to the workflow run tasks table.

### Launchpad

- Added support for `array` type parameters in the Launch form.
- Implemented support for multiple extension dataset parameters in the input form.
- Show Nextflow config parameters that are binary expressions in the Launch form.

### API

- Added `azure_entra` to the provider list of credentials in the OpenAPI spec.

### General

- Delete pipeline secrets in the user context from the provider.
- Switch logs, secrets-manager, marketplace-meter, and simple-email dependencies to AWS SDK v2.
- Switched AWS S3 to SDK v2.

## Bug fixes

### General

- Modify cache expiration policy to resolve "Connection pool shut down" error with new AWS SDK v2 clients.

### Workflows

- Fixed an issue where the workflow details page displayed the **Edit Labels** button even when there were no labels, but the workflow had attached resource labels.

### Launchpad

- Fixed an issue where the Quick Launch form did not select the primary compute environment by default.
