---
title: Seqera Cloud v25.1.0_cycle5
date: 2025-03-19
tags: [seqera cloud]
---

:::note
From Wednesday, February 26, 2025, Seqera endpoints no longer support Windows XP and Safari versions 8 and below (including OSx 10.10 or older). This change is necessary to ensure the security and performance of our services. We recommend updating your operating system and browser version to ensure uninterrupted access to our services.

Affected endpoints:

- cr.seqera.io
- \*.connect.cloud.seqera.io
- intern.seqera.io
- ai.seqera.io
- hub.seqera.io
- cloud.seqera.io
- api.cloud.seqera.io
- user-data.cloud.seqera.io
- tower.nf
- api.tower.nf
- public.cr.seqera.io
- auth.cr.seqera.io
- wave.seqera.io
- licenses.seqera.io
- licman.seqera.io
- api.multiqc.info
  :::

### Feature updates and improvements

- **Studios**
  - Private sessions: When adding a new session, the number of concurrent connections can now be defined in **General Config > Collaboration**.
  - Dynamic Studio templates: Labels have been added to indicate the status of support (e.g., _Recommended_, _Deprecated_) for a Studio template version. Users can now also switch the Studio's base template image when starting a session as new.
- **Nextflow**
  - Update `WfManifest` class to include the new `icon` property introduced in Nextflow.
  - Add a new migration file to add the new icon column into all the tables of entities that use the `WfManifest` class as @Embedded property.
- Audit log update: Pipeline edit events are now logged.
- Added `totalProcesses` count to workflow progress responses.
- Switch AWS Batch compute environment dependencies to AWS SDK v2.
- New workflow job monitoring collects and publishes Platform metrics.
- Support image upload in the pipeline import and pipeline update forms, to be used as pipeline logos.

### Bug fixes

- Fixed a bug where resource labels were erroneously editable for the maintain role when starting an existing Studio.
- Fixed a potential `NullPointerException` on code related to Google Batch, where the method is expected to return `null`.
- Fixed an issue where users were not able to remove the organization logo.
