---
title: MultiQC v0.3
date: 2015-11-04
tags: [multiqc]
---

Lots of spit and polish added to MultiQC in this release - everything should now be properly documented and reports are quite a bit more stable.

### Changelog
- Lots of lovely new documentation!
- Child templates - easily customise specific parts of the default report template
- Plugin hooks - allow other tools to execute custom code during MultiQC execution
- New Preseq module
- New design for general statistics table (snazzy new background bars)
- Further development of toolbox
  - New button to clear all filters
  - Warnings when samples are hidden, plus empty plots and table cols are hidden
  - Active toolbar tab buttons are highlighted
- Lots of refactoring by @moonso to please the Pythonic gods
  - Switched to click instead of argparse to handle command line arguments
  - Code generally conforms to best practices better now.
- Now able to supply multiple directories to search for reports
- Logging output improved (now controlled by `-q` and `-v` for quiet and verbose)
- More HTML output dealt with by the base module, less left to the modules
  - Module introduction text
  - General statistics table now much easier to add to (new helper functions)
- Images, CSS and Javascript now included in HTML, meaning that there is a single
  report file to make sharing easier
- More accessible scrolling in the report - styled scrollbars and 'to top' button.
- Modules and templates now use setuptools entry points, facilitating plugins
  by other packages. Allows niche extensions whilst keeping the core codebase clean.
- The general stats table now has a sticky header row when scrolling, thanks to
  some new javascript wizardry...
- General stats columns can have a _shared key_ which allows common colour schemes
  and data ranges. For instance, all columns describing a read count will now share
  their scale across modules.
- General stats columns can be hidden and reordered with a new modal window.
- Plotting code refactored, reports with many samples (>50 by default) don't
  automatically render to avoid freezing the browser.
- Plots with highlighted and renamed samples now honour this when exporting to
  different file types.
