platform_versioned_docs/version-24.3/administration/overview.mdx, before:

---
title: "Admin panel"
description: "Overview of Seqera user and organization administration"
date: "21 Apr 2023"
tags: [administration, user, workspace, organization]
---

As a root user, you can access a comprehensive overview of the organizations, workspaces, users, and teams in your account from the **Admin panel**. It also includes tabs for application event audit logs, administrative statistics, and system configuration options. The root user system role should only be assigned to a system administrator as it provides high-level visibility and configuration access to your account.

:::tip
See [Basic configuration](../../version-24.2/enterprise/configuration/overview.mdx#basic-configuration) to learn how to add root users to your Seqera Enterprise deployment with the `TOWER_ROOT_USERS` environment variable.
:::

## Manage organizations

:::note
From version 23.2, organization owners and root users can edit organization names on the **Edit organization** page.
:::

The **Organizations** tab lists all the organizations in your account.

- Use the search function to find an organization by name and perform various operations with that organization.
- Select **Add organization** to create a new organization.
- Select an organization name from the table to edit or delete it.

See [Organizations](../orgs-and-teams/organizations) for more information. 

## Manage members

From an organization's page, select the **Members of organization** tab to view a list of its members. Here you can list and search for all members and owners of the organization, change a member's role, remove a member from the organization, or add a new member to the organization.

You can only add existing users to an organization. You can't remove the last owner of an organization until you promote another member to **Owner** first.

See [Members](../orgs-and-teams/organizations#members) for more information. 

## Manage workspaces

The **Workspaces** tab lists all the workspaces in your account. 

- Use the search function to find a workspace by name to view and edit that workspace.
- Select **Add workspace** to create a new workspace. Choose a workspace name that isn't already in use. If the new workspace name already exists in the system, the creation will fail. After the workspace is created, it's listed in the **Workspaces** tab.
- Select **Edit** next to a workspace name to edit or delete the workspace.

See [Workspaces](../orgs-and-teams/workspace-management) for more information.

## Manage users

The **Users** tab lists all the users in your account.

- Use the search function to find a user by name or email to view or edit that user.
- Select **Add user** to create a new user. If the new user email already exists in the system, the user creation will fail. After the user is created, inform them that access has been granted.
- Select a username from the table to edit or delete the user.

See [User roles](../orgs-and-teams/roles) for more information on organization and workspace user access roles. 

## Manage teams

The **Teams** tab lists all the teams in your account.

- Use the organizations dropdown next to the search bar to filter teams by organization.
- Use the search function to find a team by name and perform various operations.
- Select **Add team** to create a new team.
- Select **Edit** next to a team to edit the team's details, or select **Delete** to delete it.

From the teams list, you have an overview of the number of members and the unique ID of each team. Select **Edit** to view a team's page, or select the number next to **Members:** to go to the **Members** tab of the team page. From the **Members of team** tab, you can list and search for all users that are members of the selected team, change a user's role, remove a member from the team, or add a new member to the team.

See [Teams](../orgs-and-teams/organizations#teams) for more information.

Commit message:

Add admin panel disable/allow user instructions

platform_versioned_docs/version-24.3/administration/overview.mdx, after:

---
title: "Admin panel"
description: "Overview of Seqera user and organization administration"
date: "21 Apr 2023"
tags: [administration, user, workspace, organization]
---

As a root user, you can access a comprehensive overview of the organizations, workspaces, users, and teams in your account from the **Admin panel**. It also includes tabs for application event audit logs, administrative statistics, and system configuration options. The root user system role should only be assigned to a system administrator as it provides high-level visibility and configuration access to your account.

:::tip
See [Basic configuration](../../version-24.2/enterprise/configuration/overview.mdx#basic-configuration) to learn how to add root users to your Seqera Enterprise deployment with the `TOWER_ROOT_USERS` environment variable.
:::

## Manage organizations

:::note
From version 23.2, organization owners and root users can edit organization names on the **Edit organization** page.
:::

The **Organizations** tab lists all the organizations in your account.

- Use the search function to find an organization by name and perform various operations with that organization.
- Select **Add organization** to create a new organization.
- Select an organization name from the table to edit or delete it.

See [Organizations](../orgs-and-teams/organizations) for more information. 

## Manage members

From an organization's page, select the **Members of organization** tab to view a list of its members. Here you can list and search for all members and owners of the organization, change a member's role, remove a member from the organization, or add a new member to the organization.

You can only add existing users to an organization. You can't remove the last owner of an organization until you promote another member to **Owner** first.

See [Members](../orgs-and-teams/organizations#members) for more information. 

## Manage workspaces

The **Workspaces** tab lists all the workspaces in your account. 

- Use the search function to find a workspace by name to view and edit that workspace.
- Select **Add workspace** to create a new workspace. Choose a workspace name that isn't already in use. If the new workspace name already exists in the system, the creation will fail. After the workspace is created, it's listed in the **Workspaces** tab.
- Select **Edit** next to a workspace name to edit or delete the workspace.

See [Workspaces](../orgs-and-teams/workspace-management) for more information.

## Manage users

The **Users** tab lists all the users in your account.

- Select **Add user** to create a new user. If the new user email already exists in the system, the user creation will fail. After the user is created, inform them that access has been granted.
- Use the search function to find a user by name or email.
- Select a username from the list or select **Edit** to view and update the user's details. 
- To disable a user's Platform login access, select **Disable user**. This action does not delete the user.
- To reinstate a disabled user's Platform login access, select **Allow login**. This option is grayed out for active users.

See [User roles](../orgs-and-teams/roles) for more information on organization and workspace user access roles. 

## Manage teams

The **Teams** tab lists all the teams in your account.

- Use the organizations dropdown next to the search bar to filter teams by organization.
- Use the search function to find a team by name and perform various operations.
- Select **Add team** to create a new team.
- Select **Edit** next to a team to edit the team's details, or select **Delete** to delete it.

From the teams list, you have an overview of the number of members and the unique ID of each team. Select **Edit** to view a team's page, or select the number next to **Members:** to go to the **Members** tab of the team page. From the **Members of team** tab, you can list and search for all users that are members of the selected team, change a user's role, remove a member from the team, or add a new member to the team.

See [Teams](../orgs-and-teams/organizations#teams) for more information.
