platform_versioned_docs/version-24.1.0/credentials/managed_identities.mdx, before:

---
title: "Managed identities"
description: "Configure managed identities in Seqera Platform."
date: "12 Jun 2024"
tags: [organizations, administration, managed identities, clusters, ssh, credentials]
---

With traditional SSH credentials in Seqera Platform, all workspace users access HPC clusters with the same set of credentials configured in the workspace. While this simplifies access control to computing resources, all user activity on your HPC cluster is logged under the same user credentials. This also means that all Seqera workspace users have the same access permissions on your HPC cluster. When multiple workspace users run pipelines and consume compute resources, all activity is reflected under the same user on your HPC cluster. Seqera managed identities resolve this limitation by enabling granular access control to HPC clusters for individual workspace users. 

Configure a managed identity at the organization level to be used to access the supported HPC compute environments in your organization workspaces. A managed identity is selected for authentication to your compute environment in the same way that a traditional credential would be selected, but a managed identity can contain multiple user credentials each tied to a unique Seqera user. This preserves the identity of the user launching workflows on your HPC cluster or compute environment, thereby improving traceability and adherence to data access policies. 

Managed identities allow administrators to streamline user login and compute environment access while maintaining visibility into data access and compute resource usage per Seqera user. 

## Create a managed identity 

Organization owners can create managed identities at the organization level. A managed identity with user credentials can be used as a credential in HPC clusters for the same provider. 

1. From your organization page, select the **Managed identities** tab, then **Add managed identity**.
1. Enter the details of your cluster:
  - A unique **Cluster name** of your choice using alphanumeric, dash, and underscore characters. 
  - Select a cluster **Provider** from the dropdown.
  - The fully qualified cluster **Hostname** to be used to connect to the cluster via SSH. This is usually the cluster login node. 
  - The SSH **Port** number for the login connection. The default is port 22. 
1. Select **Add cluster**. The new cluster is now listed under your organization's managed identities. 

Select **Edit** next to a managed identity in the list to edit its details and add user credentials. 

:::note
If the managed identity is already in use on a compute environment, editing its details may lead to errors when using the compute environment. 
:::

## Add user credentials 

Organization owners can grant individual users access to managed identities by adding each user's credentials to the managed identity. 

:::note 
You must add user credentials to a managed identity before it can be used in a compute environment.
:::

1. From the **Managed identities** tab, select **Edit** next to the cluster in question, then select the **Users** tab. 
1. The members of the organization are prepopulated in the **Users** list. Users without credentials are listed with a **Missing** credentials status. Add a user's credentials by selecting **Add credentials** from the user action menu, or the **Add credentials** button. 
1. Enter the credential details in the **Add credentials** window:
  - The member's **Linux username** used to access the cluster.
  - Paste the contents of the **SSH private key** file for the user's SSH key pair, including the `-----BEGIN OPENSSH PRIVATE KEY-----` and `-----END OPENSSH PRIVATE KEY-----` lines. Ensure no additional lines or spaces are included.
  - The SSH private key **Passphrase**, if the key has a passphrase. Otherwise, leave this blank. 
1. Select **Add credentials**. The Linux username for the user is now populated in the list, and the **Credentials** status is changed to **Added**.

Commit message:

Add Linux user group caveat

platform_versioned_docs/version-24.1.0/credentials/managed_identities.mdx, after:

---
title: "Managed identities"
description: "Configure managed identities in Seqera Platform."
date: "12 Jun 2024"
tags: [organizations, administration, managed identities, clusters, ssh, credentials]
---

With traditional SSH credentials in Seqera Platform, all workspace users access HPC clusters with the same set of credentials configured in the workspace. While this simplifies access control to computing resources, all user activity on your HPC cluster is logged under the same user credentials. This also means that all Seqera workspace users have the same access permissions on your HPC cluster. When multiple workspace users run pipelines and consume compute resources, all activity is reflected under the same user on your HPC cluster. Seqera managed identities resolve this limitation by enabling granular access control to HPC clusters for individual workspace users. 

Configure a managed identity at the organization level to be used to access the supported HPC compute environments in your organization workspaces. A managed identity is selected for authentication to your compute environment in the same way that a traditional credential would be selected, but it contains multiple user credentials each tied to a unique Seqera user. This preserves the identity of the user launching workflows on your HPC cluster or compute environment, thereby improving traceability and adherence to data access policies. 

By grouping individual user SSH credentials into a single Seqera element, managed identities allow administrators to streamline user login and compute environment access while maintaining visibility into data access and compute resource usage for each user. 

## Create a managed identity 

Organization owners can create managed identities at the organization level. A managed identity with user credentials can be used as a credential in HPC clusters for the same provider. 

1. From your organization page, select the **Managed identities** tab, then **Add managed identity**.
1. Enter the details of your cluster:
    - A unique **Cluster name** of your choice using alphanumeric, dash, and underscore characters. 
    - Select a cluster **Provider** from the dropdown.
    - The fully qualified cluster **Hostname** to be used to connect to the cluster via SSH. This is usually the cluster login node. 
    - The SSH **Port** number for the login connection. The default is port 22. 
1. Select **Add cluster**. The new cluster is now listed under your organization's managed identities. 

Select **Edit** next to a managed identity in the list to edit its details and add user credentials. 

:::note
If the managed identity is already in use on a compute environment, editing its details may lead to errors when using the compute environment. 
:::

## Add user credentials 

Organization owners can grant individual users access to managed identities by adding each user's credentials to the managed identity. You must add user credentials to a managed identity before it can be used in a compute environment.

:::caution 
All managed identity users must be a part of the same Linux user group. The group must have access to the HPC compute environment work directory. Set group permissions for the work directory as follows (replace `sharedgroupname` and `<WORKDIR>` with your group name and work directory):

```bash
chgrp -R sharedgroupname <WORKDIR>
chmod -R g+wxs <WORKDIR>
setfacl -Rdm g:sharedgroupname:rwxs <WORKDIR>
```
:::

1. From the **Managed identities** tab, select **Edit** next to the cluster in question, then select the **Users** tab. 
1. The members of the organization are prepopulated in the **Users** list. Users without credentials are listed with a **Missing** credentials status. Add a user's credentials by selecting **Add credentials** from the user action menu, or the **Add credentials** button. 
1. Enter the credential details in the **Add credentials** window:
    - The member's **Linux username** used to access the cluster.
    - Paste the contents of the **SSH private key** file for the user's SSH key pair, including the `-----BEGIN OPENSSH PRIVATE KEY-----` and `-----END OPENSSH PRIVATE KEY-----` lines. Ensure no additional lines or spaces are included.
    - The SSH private key **Passphrase**, if the key has a passphrase. Otherwise, leave this blank. 
1. Select **Add credentials**. The Linux username for the user is now populated in the list, and the **Credentials** status is changed to **Added**.
