platform_versioned_docs/version-23.4.0/enterprise/advanced-topics/manual-aws-batch-setup.mdx, before:

---
title: "Manual AWS Batch configuration"
description: "Manual AWS Batch configuration"
date: "12 Apr 2023"
tags: [aws, batch, configuration]
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

This page describes how to set up AWS roles and Batch queues manually for the deployment of Nextflow workloads with Seqera Platform.

:::tip
Manual AWS Batch configuration is only necessary if you don't use Batch Forge.

Batch Forge _automatically creates_ the AWS Batch queues required for your workflow executions.
:::

Complete the following procedures to configure AWS Batch manually:

1. Create a user policy.
2. Create the instance role policy.
3. Create the AWS Batch service role.
4. Create an EC2 Instance role.
5. Create an EC2 SpotFleet role.
6. Create a launch template.
7. Create the AWS Batch compute environments.
8. Create the AWS Batch queue.

### Create a user policy

Create the policy for the user launching Nextflow jobs:

1. In the [IAM Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home), select **Create policy** from the Policies page.
1. Create a new policy with the following content:

   ```json
   {
     "Version": "2012-10-17",
     "Statement": [
       {
         "Sid": "Stmt1530313170000",
         "Effect": "Allow",
         "Action": [
           "batch:CancelJob",
           "batch:RegisterJobDefinition",
           "batch:DescribeComputeEnvironments",
           "batch:DescribeJobDefinitions",
           "batch:DescribeJobQueues",
           "batch:DescribeJobs",
           "batch:ListJobs",
           "batch:SubmitJob",
           "batch:TerminateJob"
         ],
         "Resource": ["*"]
       }
     ]
   }
   ```

1. Save with it the name `seqera-user`.

### Create the instance role policy

Create the policy with a role that allows Seqera to submit Batch jobs on your EC2 instances:

1. In the [IAM Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home), select **Create policy** from the Policies page.
1. Create a new policy with the following content:

  ```json
  {
      "Version": "2012-10-17",
      "Statement": [
          {
              "Sid": "VisualEditor0",
              "Effect": "Allow",
              "Action": [
                  "batch:DescribeJobQueues",
                  "batch:CancelJob",
                  "batch:SubmitJob",
                  "batch:ListJobs",
                  "batch:DescribeComputeEnvironments",
                  "batch:TerminateJob",
                  "batch:DescribeJobs",
                  "batch:RegisterJobDefinition",
                  "batch:DescribeJobDefinitions",
                  "batch:TagResource",
                  "ecs:DescribeTasks",
                  "ec2:DescribeInstances",
                  "ec2:DescribeInstanceTypes",
                  "ec2:DescribeInstanceAttribute",
                  "ecs:DescribeContainerInstances",
                  "ec2:DescribeInstanceStatus",
                  "logs:Describe*",
                  "logs:Get*",
                  "logs:List*",
                  "logs:Create*",
                  "logs:Put*",
                  "logs:StartQuery",
                  "logs:StopQuery",
                  "logs:TestMetricFilter",
                  "logs:FilterLogEvents"
              ],
              "Resource": "*"
          }
      ]
  }
  ```

1. Save it with the name `seqera-batchjob`.

### Create the Batch Service role

Create a service role used by AWS Batch to launch EC2 instances on your behalf:

1. In the [IAM Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home), select **Create role** from the Roles page.
1. Select **AWS service** as the trusted entity type, and **Batch** as the service.
1. On the next page, the `AWSBatchServiceRole` is already attached. No further permissions are needed for this role.
1. Enter `seqera-servicerole` as the role name and add an optional description and tags if needed, then select **Create**.

### Create an EC2 instance role

Create a role that controls which AWS resources the EC2 instances launched by AWS Batch can access:

1. In the [IAM Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home), select **Create role** from the Roles page.
1. Select AWS service as the trusted entity type, EC2 as the service, and _EC2 - Allows EC2 instances to call AWS services on your behalf_ as the use case.
1. Select **Next: Permissions**. Search for the following policies to attach to the role:

	- `AmazonEC2ContainerServiceforEC2Role`
	- `AmazonS3FullAccess` (you may want to use a custom policy to allow access only on specific S3 buckets)
	- `seqera-batchjob` (the instance role policy created above)

1. Enter `seqera-instancerole` as the role name and add an optional description and tags if needed, then select **Create**.

### Create an EC2 SpotFleet role

The EC2 SpotFleet role allows you to use Spot instances when you run jobs in AWS Batch. Create a role for the creation and launch of Spot fleets — Spot instances with similar compute capabilities (i.e., vCPUs and RAM):

1. In the [IAM Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home), select **Create role** from the Roles page.
1. Select AWS service as the trusted entity type, EC2 as the service, and _EC2 - Spot Fleet Tagging_ as the use case.
1. On the next page, the `AmazonEC2SpotFleetTaggingRole` is already attached. No further permissions are needed for this role.
1. Enter `seqera-fleetrole` as the role name and add an optional description and tags if needed, then select **Create**.

### Create a launch template

Create a launch template to configure the EC2 instances deployed by Batch jobs:

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="AWS Batch with Fusion v2" label="AWS Batch with Fusion v2" default>

  1. In the [EC2 Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/v2/home), select **Create launch template** from the Launch templates page.
  1. Scroll down to **Advanced details** and paste the following in the **User data** field:

    ```bash
    MIME-Version: 1.0
    Content-Type: multipart/mixed; boundary="//"

    --//
    Content-Type: text/cloud-config; charset="us-ascii"

    #cloud-config
    write_files:
      - path: /root/seqera-ce.sh
        permissions: 0744
        owner: root
        content: |
          #!/usr/bin/env bash
          yum install -q -y jq sed wget unzip nvme-cli lvm2
          wget -q https://amazoncloudwatch-agent.s3.amazonaws.com/amazon_linux/amd64/latest/amazon-cloudwatch-agent.rpm
          rpm -U ./amazon-cloudwatch-agent.rpm
          rm -f ./amazon-cloudwatch-agent.rpm
          curl -s https://docs.seqera.io/assets/files/agent-config-271e21b968c9a9da90f87eb7f3c6b92b.json \
            | sed 's/seqera-prefix/<your prefix>/g' \
            > /opt/aws/amazon-cloudwatch-agent/bin/config.json
          /opt/aws/amazon-cloudwatch-agent/bin/amazon-cloudwatch-agent-ctl \
            -a fetch-config \
            -m ec2 \
            -s \
            -c file:/opt/aws/amazon-cloudwatch-agent/bin/config.json          
          mkdir -p /scratch/fusion
          NVME_DISKS=($(nvme list | grep 'Amazon EC2 NVMe Instance Storage' | awk '{ print $1 }'))
          NUM_DISKS=${#NVME_DISKS[@]}
          if (( NUM_DISKS > 0 )); then
            if (( NUM_DISKS == 1 )); then
              mkfs -t xfs ${NVME_DISKS[0]}
              mount ${NVME_DISKS[0]} /scratch/fusion
            else
              pvcreate ${NVME_DISKS[@]}
              vgcreate scratch_fusion ${NVME_DISKS[@]}
              lvcreate -l 100%FREE -n volume scratch_fusion
              mkfs -t xfs /dev/mapper/scratch_fusion-volume
              mount /dev/mapper/scratch_fusion-volume /scratch/fusion
            fi
          fi
          chmod a+w /scratch/fusion
          mkdir -p /etc/ecs
          echo ECS_IMAGE_PULL_BEHAVIOR=once >> /etc/ecs/ecs.config
          echo ECS_ENABLE_AWSLOGS_EXECUTIONROLE_OVERRIDE=true >> /etc/ecs/ecs.config
          systemctl stop docker
          ## install AWS CLI
          mkdir -p /home/ec2-user
          curl -s https://nf-xpack.seqera.io/miniconda-awscli/miniconda-awscli.tar.gz \
          | tar xz -C /home/ec2-user
          export PATH=$PATH:/home/ec2-user/miniconda/bin
          ln -s /home/ec2-user/miniconda/bin/aws /usr/bin/aws
          systemctl start docker
          systemctl enable --now --no-block ecs
          echo "1258291200" > /proc/sys/vm/dirty_bytes
          echo "629145600" > /proc/sys/vm/dirty_background_bytes

    runcmd:
      - bash /root/seqera-ce.sh

    --//--
    ```

  1. In the line `| sed 's/seqera-prefix/<your prefix>/g' \`, replace `<your prefix>` with your desired prefix to be added to the AWS resources created by your compute environment.
  1. Save the template with the name `seqera-launchtemplate`.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="AWS Batch without Fusion v2" label="AWS Batch without Fusion v2" default>

  1. In the [EC2 Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/v2/home), select **Create launch template** from the Launch templates page.
  1. Scroll down to **Advanced details** and paste the following in the **User data** field:

    ```bash
    MIME-Version: 1.0
    Content-Type: multipart/mixed; boundary="//"

    --//
    Content-Type: text/cloud-config; charset="us-ascii"

    #cloud-config
    write_files:
      - path: /root/seqera-ce.sh
        permissions: 0744
        owner: root
        content: |
          #!/usr/bin/env bash
          yum install -q -y jq sed wget unzip nvme-cli lvm2
          wget -q https://amazoncloudwatch-agent.s3.amazonaws.com/amazon_linux/amd64/latest/amazon-cloudwatch-agent.rpm
          rpm -U ./amazon-cloudwatch-agent.rpm
          rm -f ./amazon-cloudwatch-agent.rpm
          curl -s https://docs.seqera.io/assets/files/agent-config-271e21b968c9a9da90f87eb7f3c6b92b.json \
            > /opt/aws/amazon-cloudwatch-agent/bin/config.json
          /opt/aws/amazon-cloudwatch-agent/bin/amazon-cloudwatch-agent-ctl \
            -a fetch-config \
            -m ec2 \
            -s \
            -c file:/opt/aws/amazon-cloudwatch-agent/bin/config.json          
          mkdir -p /etc/ecs
          echo ECS_IMAGE_PULL_BEHAVIOR=once >> /etc/ecs/ecs.config
          echo ECS_ENABLE_AWSLOGS_EXECUTIONROLE_OVERRIDE=true >> /etc/ecs/ecs.config
          systemctl stop docker
          ## install AWS CLI v2
          mkdir -p /home/ec2-user
          curl -s https://nf-xpack.seqera.io/miniconda-awscli/miniconda-awscli.tar.gz \
          | tar xz -C /home/ec2-user
          export PATH=$PATH:/home/ec2-user/miniconda/bin
          ln -s /home/ec2-user/miniconda/bin/aws /usr/bin/aws
          systemctl start docker
          systemctl enable --now --no-block ecs
          echo "1258291200" > /proc/sys/vm/dirty_bytes
          echo "629145600" > /proc/sys/vm/dirty_background_bytes

    runcmd:
      - bash /root/seqera-ce.sh

    --//--
    ```

  1. In the line `| sed 's/seqera-prefix/<your prefix>/g' \`, replace `<your prefix>` with your desired prefix to be added to the AWS resources created by your compute environment.
  1. Save the template with the name `seqera-launchtemplate`.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Create the Batch compute environments

:::caution 
AWS Graviton instances (ARM64 CPU architecture) are not supported in manual compute environments. To use Graviton instances, create your AWS Batch compute environment with [Batch Forge](../../compute-envs/aws-batch.mdx#batch-forge-compute-environment).
:::

Nextflow makes use of two job queues during workflow execution:

- A head queue to run the Nextflow application
- A compute queue where Nextflow will submit job executions

While the compute queue can use a compute environment with Spot instances, the head queue requires an on-demand compute environment. If you intend to use an on-demand compute environment for compute jobs, the same job queue can be used for both head and compute.

:::note
Spot instances can significantly reduce your AWS compute costs, provided your workflow compute tasks can run on ephemeral instances.
:::

Create a compute environment for each queue in the AWS Batch console:

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="Head queue with on-demand instances" label="Head queue with on-demand instances" default>

The head queue requires an on-demand compute environment. Do not select **Use Spot instances** during compute environment creation.

1. In the [Batch Console](https://eu-west-1.console.aws.amazon.com/batch/home), select **Create** on the Compute environments page.
1. Select **Amazon EC2** as the compute environment configuration.

    :::note
    Seqera AWS Batch compute environments created with [Batch Forge](../../compute-envs/aws-batch.mdx#batch-forge-compute-environment) support using Fargate for the head job, but manual compute environments must use EC2.
    :::

1. Enter a name of your choice, and apply the `seqera-servicerole` and `seqera-instancerole`.
1. Enter vCPU limits and instance types, if needed.

    :::note
    To use the same queue for both head and compute tasks, you must assign sufficient resources to your compute environment.
    :::

1. Expand **Additional configuration** and select the `seqera-launchtemplate` from the Launch template dropdown.
1. Configure VPCs, subnets, and security groups on the next page as needed.
1. Review your configuration and select **Create compute environment**.  

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Compute queue with Spot instances" label="Compute queue with Spot instances" default>

Create this compute environment to use Spot instances for your workflow compute tasks. This compute environment cannot be assigned to the Nextflow head job queue.

1. In the [Batch Console](https://eu-west-1.console.aws.amazon.com/batch/home), select **Create** on the Compute environments page.
1. Select **Amazon EC2** as the compute environment configuration.
1. Enter a name of your choice, and apply the `seqera-servicerole` and `seqera-instancerole`.
1. Select **Enable using Spot instances** to use Spot instances and save computing costs.  
1. Select the `seqera-fleetrole` and enter vCPU limits and instance types, if needed.
1. Expand **Additional configuration** and select the `seqera-launchtemplate` from the Launch template dropdown.
1. Configure VPCs, subnets, and security groups on the next page as needed.
1. Review your configuration and select **Create compute environment**.  

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Create the Batch queue

Create a Batch queue to be associated with each compute environment.

:::note
You only need to create one queue if you intend to use on-demand instances for your workflow compute tasks. Compute environments with Spot instances require separate queues for the head and compute tasks.
:::

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="Head queue" label="Head queue" default>

1. Go to the [Batch Console](https://eu-west-1.console.aws.amazon.com/batch/home).
2. Create a new queue.
3. Associate the queue with the head queue compute environment created in the previous section.
4. Save it with a name of your choice.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Compute queue" label="Compute queue" default>

1. Go to the [Batch Console](https://eu-west-1.console.aws.amazon.com/batch/home).
2. Create a new queue.
3. Associate the queue with the compute queue environment created in the previous section.
4. Save it with a name of your choice.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Use the AWS resources created on this page to create your [manual AWS Batch compute environment](../../compute-envs/aws-batch.mdx#manual).

Commit message:

Update agent config URLs and custom prefixes in LT

platform_versioned_docs/version-23.4.0/enterprise/advanced-topics/manual-aws-batch-setup.mdx, after:

---
title: "Manual AWS Batch configuration"
description: "Manual AWS Batch configuration"
date: "12 Apr 2023"
tags: [aws, batch, configuration]
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

This page describes how to set up AWS roles and Batch queues manually for the deployment of Nextflow workloads with Seqera Platform.

:::tip
Manual AWS Batch configuration is only necessary if you don't use Batch Forge.

Batch Forge _automatically creates_ the AWS Batch queues required for your workflow executions.
:::

Complete the following procedures to configure AWS Batch manually:

1. Create a user policy.
2. Create the instance role policy.
3. Create the AWS Batch service role.
4. Create an EC2 Instance role.
5. Create an EC2 SpotFleet role.
6. Create a launch template.
7. Create the AWS Batch compute environments.
8. Create the AWS Batch queue.

### Create a user policy

Create the policy for the user launching Nextflow jobs:

1. In the [IAM Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home), select **Create policy** from the Policies page.
1. Create a new policy with the following content:

   ```json
   {
     "Version": "2012-10-17",
     "Statement": [
       {
         "Sid": "Stmt1530313170000",
         "Effect": "Allow",
         "Action": [
           "batch:CancelJob",
           "batch:RegisterJobDefinition",
           "batch:DescribeComputeEnvironments",
           "batch:DescribeJobDefinitions",
           "batch:DescribeJobQueues",
           "batch:DescribeJobs",
           "batch:ListJobs",
           "batch:SubmitJob",
           "batch:TerminateJob"
         ],
         "Resource": ["*"]
       }
     ]
   }
   ```

1. Save with it the name `seqera-user`.

### Create the instance role policy

Create the policy with a role that allows Seqera to submit Batch jobs on your EC2 instances:

1. In the [IAM Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home), select **Create policy** from the Policies page.
1. Create a new policy with the following content:

  ```json
  {
      "Version": "2012-10-17",
      "Statement": [
          {
              "Sid": "VisualEditor0",
              "Effect": "Allow",
              "Action": [
                  "batch:DescribeJobQueues",
                  "batch:CancelJob",
                  "batch:SubmitJob",
                  "batch:ListJobs",
                  "batch:DescribeComputeEnvironments",
                  "batch:TerminateJob",
                  "batch:DescribeJobs",
                  "batch:RegisterJobDefinition",
                  "batch:DescribeJobDefinitions",
                  "batch:TagResource",
                  "ecs:DescribeTasks",
                  "ec2:DescribeInstances",
                  "ec2:DescribeInstanceTypes",
                  "ec2:DescribeInstanceAttribute",
                  "ecs:DescribeContainerInstances",
                  "ec2:DescribeInstanceStatus",
                  "logs:Describe*",
                  "logs:Get*",
                  "logs:List*",
                  "logs:Create*",
                  "logs:Put*",
                  "logs:StartQuery",
                  "logs:StopQuery",
                  "logs:TestMetricFilter",
                  "logs:FilterLogEvents"
              ],
              "Resource": "*"
          }
      ]
  }
  ```

1. Save it with the name `seqera-batchjob`.

### Create the Batch Service role

Create a service role used by AWS Batch to launch EC2 instances on your behalf:

1. In the [IAM Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home), select **Create role** from the Roles page.
1. Select **AWS service** as the trusted entity type, and **Batch** as the service.
1. On the next page, the `AWSBatchServiceRole` is already attached. No further permissions are needed for this role.
1. Enter `seqera-servicerole` as the role name and add an optional description and tags if needed, then select **Create**.

### Create an EC2 instance role

Create a role that controls which AWS resources the EC2 instances launched by AWS Batch can access:

1. In the [IAM Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home), select **Create role** from the Roles page.
1. Select AWS service as the trusted entity type, EC2 as the service, and _EC2 - Allows EC2 instances to call AWS services on your behalf_ as the use case.
1. Select **Next: Permissions**. Search for the following policies to attach to the role:

	- `AmazonEC2ContainerServiceforEC2Role`
	- `AmazonS3FullAccess` (you may want to use a custom policy to allow access only on specific S3 buckets)
	- `seqera-batchjob` (the instance role policy created above)

1. Enter `seqera-instancerole` as the role name and add an optional description and tags if needed, then select **Create**.

### Create an EC2 SpotFleet role

The EC2 SpotFleet role allows you to use Spot instances when you run jobs in AWS Batch. Create a role for the creation and launch of Spot fleets — Spot instances with similar compute capabilities (i.e., vCPUs and RAM):

1. In the [IAM Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home), select **Create role** from the Roles page.
1. Select AWS service as the trusted entity type, EC2 as the service, and _EC2 - Spot Fleet Tagging_ as the use case.
1. On the next page, the `AmazonEC2SpotFleetTaggingRole` is already attached. No further permissions are needed for this role.
1. Enter `seqera-fleetrole` as the role name and add an optional description and tags if needed, then select **Create**.

### Create a launch template

Create a launch template to configure the EC2 instances deployed by Batch jobs:

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="AWS Batch with Fusion v2" label="AWS Batch with Fusion v2" default>

  1. In the [EC2 Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/v2/home), select **Create launch template** from the Launch templates page.
  1. Scroll down to **Advanced details** and paste the following in the **User data** field:

    ```bash
    MIME-Version: 1.0
    Content-Type: multipart/mixed; boundary="//"

    --//
    Content-Type: text/cloud-config; charset="us-ascii"

    #cloud-config
    write_files:
      - path: /root/seqera-ce.sh
        permissions: 0744
        owner: root
        content: |
          #!/usr/bin/env bash
          yum install -q -y jq sed wget unzip nvme-cli lvm2
          wget -q https://amazoncloudwatch-agent.s3.amazonaws.com/amazon_linux/amd64/latest/amazon-cloudwatch-agent.rpm
          rpm -U ./amazon-cloudwatch-agent.rpm
          rm -f ./amazon-cloudwatch-agent.rpm
          curl -s https://nf-xpack.seqera.io/amazon-cloudwatch-agent/custom-v0.1.json \
          #  | sed 's/custom-id/<your custom ID>/g' \
            > /opt/aws/amazon-cloudwatch-agent/bin/config.json
          /opt/aws/amazon-cloudwatch-agent/bin/amazon-cloudwatch-agent-ctl \
            -a fetch-config \
            -m ec2 \
            -s \
            -c file:/opt/aws/amazon-cloudwatch-agent/bin/config.json          
          mkdir -p /scratch/fusion
          NVME_DISKS=($(nvme list | grep 'Amazon EC2 NVMe Instance Storage' | awk '{ print $1 }'))
          NUM_DISKS=${#NVME_DISKS[@]}
          if (( NUM_DISKS > 0 )); then
            if (( NUM_DISKS == 1 )); then
              mkfs -t xfs ${NVME_DISKS[0]}
              mount ${NVME_DISKS[0]} /scratch/fusion
            else
              pvcreate ${NVME_DISKS[@]}
              vgcreate scratch_fusion ${NVME_DISKS[@]}
              lvcreate -l 100%FREE -n volume scratch_fusion
              mkfs -t xfs /dev/mapper/scratch_fusion-volume
              mount /dev/mapper/scratch_fusion-volume /scratch/fusion
            fi
          fi
          chmod a+w /scratch/fusion
          mkdir -p /etc/ecs
          echo ECS_IMAGE_PULL_BEHAVIOR=once >> /etc/ecs/ecs.config
          echo ECS_ENABLE_AWSLOGS_EXECUTIONROLE_OVERRIDE=true >> /etc/ecs/ecs.config
          systemctl stop docker
          ## install AWS CLI
          mkdir -p /home/ec2-user
          curl -s https://nf-xpack.seqera.io/miniconda-awscli/miniconda-awscli.tar.gz \
          | tar xz -C /home/ec2-user
          export PATH=$PATH:/home/ec2-user/miniconda/bin
          ln -s /home/ec2-user/miniconda/bin/aws /usr/bin/aws
          systemctl start docker
          systemctl enable --now --no-block ecs
          echo "1258291200" > /proc/sys/vm/dirty_bytes
          echo "629145600" > /proc/sys/vm/dirty_background_bytes

    runcmd:
      - bash /root/seqera-ce.sh

    --//--
    ```

  1. To prepend a custom identifier to the CloudWatch log streams for AWS resources created by your manual compute environment, uncomment the `| sed 's/custom-id/<your custom ID>/g' \` line and replace `<your custom ID>` with your custom ID. If ommitted, this defaults to `custom-id`.
  1. Save the template with the name `seqera-launchtemplate`.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="AWS Batch without Fusion v2" label="AWS Batch without Fusion v2" default>

  1. In the [EC2 Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/v2/home), select **Create launch template** from the Launch templates page.
  1. Scroll down to **Advanced details** and paste the following in the **User data** field:

    ```bash
    MIME-Version: 1.0
    Content-Type: multipart/mixed; boundary="//"

    --//
    Content-Type: text/cloud-config; charset="us-ascii"

    #cloud-config
    write_files:
      - path: /root/seqera-ce.sh
        permissions: 0744
        owner: root
        content: |
          #!/usr/bin/env bash
          yum install -q -y jq sed wget unzip nvme-cli lvm2
          wget -q https://amazoncloudwatch-agent.s3.amazonaws.com/amazon_linux/amd64/latest/amazon-cloudwatch-agent.rpm
          rpm -U ./amazon-cloudwatch-agent.rpm
          rm -f ./amazon-cloudwatch-agent.rpm
          curl -s https://nf-xpack.seqera.io/amazon-cloudwatch-agent/custom-v0.1.json \
          #  | sed 's/custom-id/<your custom ID>/g' \
            > /opt/aws/amazon-cloudwatch-agent/bin/config.json
          /opt/aws/amazon-cloudwatch-agent/bin/amazon-cloudwatch-agent-ctl \
            -a fetch-config \
            -m ec2 \
            -s \
            -c file:/opt/aws/amazon-cloudwatch-agent/bin/config.json          
          mkdir -p /etc/ecs
          echo ECS_IMAGE_PULL_BEHAVIOR=once >> /etc/ecs/ecs.config
          echo ECS_ENABLE_AWSLOGS_EXECUTIONROLE_OVERRIDE=true >> /etc/ecs/ecs.config
          systemctl stop docker
          ## install AWS CLI v2
          mkdir -p /home/ec2-user
          curl -s https://nf-xpack.seqera.io/miniconda-awscli/miniconda-awscli.tar.gz \
          | tar xz -C /home/ec2-user
          export PATH=$PATH:/home/ec2-user/miniconda/bin
          ln -s /home/ec2-user/miniconda/bin/aws /usr/bin/aws
          systemctl start docker
          systemctl enable --now --no-block ecs
          echo "1258291200" > /proc/sys/vm/dirty_bytes
          echo "629145600" > /proc/sys/vm/dirty_background_bytes

    runcmd:
      - bash /root/seqera-ce.sh

    --//--
    ```

  1. To prepend a custom identifier to the CloudWatch log streams for AWS resources created by your manual compute environment, uncomment the `| sed 's/custom-id/<your custom ID>/g' \` line and replace `<your custom ID>` with your custom ID. If ommitted, this defaults to `custom-id`.
  1. Save the template with the name `seqera-launchtemplate`.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Create the Batch compute environments

:::caution 
AWS Graviton instances (ARM64 CPU architecture) are not supported in manual compute environments. To use Graviton instances, create your AWS Batch compute environment with [Batch Forge](../../compute-envs/aws-batch.mdx#batch-forge-compute-environment).
:::

Nextflow makes use of two job queues during workflow execution:

- A head queue to run the Nextflow application
- A compute queue where Nextflow will submit job executions

While the compute queue can use a compute environment with Spot instances, the head queue requires an on-demand compute environment. If you intend to use an on-demand compute environment for compute jobs, the same job queue can be used for both head and compute.

:::note
Spot instances can significantly reduce your AWS compute costs, provided your workflow compute tasks can run on ephemeral instances.
:::

Create a compute environment for each queue in the AWS Batch console:

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="Head queue with on-demand instances" label="Head queue with on-demand instances" default>

The head queue requires an on-demand compute environment. Do not select **Use Spot instances** during compute environment creation.

1. In the [Batch Console](https://eu-west-1.console.aws.amazon.com/batch/home), select **Create** on the Compute environments page.
1. Select **Amazon EC2** as the compute environment configuration.

    :::note
    Seqera AWS Batch compute environments created with [Batch Forge](../../compute-envs/aws-batch.mdx#batch-forge-compute-environment) support using Fargate for the head job, but manual compute environments must use EC2.
    :::

1. Enter a name of your choice, and apply the `seqera-servicerole` and `seqera-instancerole`.
1. Enter vCPU limits and instance types, if needed.

    :::note
    To use the same queue for both head and compute tasks, you must assign sufficient resources to your compute environment.
    :::

1. Expand **Additional configuration** and select the `seqera-launchtemplate` from the Launch template dropdown.
1. Configure VPCs, subnets, and security groups on the next page as needed.
1. Review your configuration and select **Create compute environment**.  

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Compute queue with Spot instances" label="Compute queue with Spot instances" default>

Create this compute environment to use Spot instances for your workflow compute tasks. This compute environment cannot be assigned to the Nextflow head job queue.

1. In the [Batch Console](https://eu-west-1.console.aws.amazon.com/batch/home), select **Create** on the Compute environments page.
1. Select **Amazon EC2** as the compute environment configuration.
1. Enter a name of your choice, and apply the `seqera-servicerole` and `seqera-instancerole`.
1. Select **Enable using Spot instances** to use Spot instances and save computing costs.  
1. Select the `seqera-fleetrole` and enter vCPU limits and instance types, if needed.
1. Expand **Additional configuration** and select the `seqera-launchtemplate` from the Launch template dropdown.
1. Configure VPCs, subnets, and security groups on the next page as needed.
1. Review your configuration and select **Create compute environment**.  

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Create the Batch queue

Create a Batch queue to be associated with each compute environment.

:::note
You only need to create one queue if you intend to use on-demand instances for your workflow compute tasks. Compute environments with Spot instances require separate queues for the head and compute tasks.
:::

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="Head queue" label="Head queue" default>

1. Go to the [Batch Console](https://eu-west-1.console.aws.amazon.com/batch/home).
2. Create a new queue.
3. Associate the queue with the head queue compute environment created in the previous section.
4. Save it with a name of your choice.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Compute queue" label="Compute queue" default>

1. Go to the [Batch Console](https://eu-west-1.console.aws.amazon.com/batch/home).
2. Create a new queue.
3. Associate the queue with the compute queue environment created in the previous section.
4. Save it with a name of your choice.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Use the AWS resources created on this page to create your [manual AWS Batch compute environment](../../compute-envs/aws-batch.mdx#manual).
