platform_versioned_docs/version-24.1/data-privacy/overview.mdx, before:

---
title: "Data privacy"
description: "Overview of the data collected by Seqera Platform"
date: "21 Apr 2023"
tags: [data, privacy]
---

### Your data

Your data stays strictly within **your** infrastructure.

When you launch a workflow through Seqera Platform, you need to connect your infrastructure (HPC/VMs/K8s) by creating the appropriate credentials and compute environment in a workspace. The application then uses this configuration to trigger a Nextflow workflow within your infrastructure similar to what is done via the Nextflow CLI. The application doesn't manipulate any data itself and no data is transferred to the infrastructure where it's running.

It may be possible to access some data within your storage from the application interface - for example, viewing logs and reports generated in a pipeline run. However, this data is never stored within the platform's infrastructure.

### Metadata stored by Seqera Platform

Workflow execution metadata is sent by the Nextflow runtime to the application when:

- When you launch a workflow with the application.
  - When you use the `-with-tower` option at the command line.
- When `tower.enabled` is specified in the Nextflow config.

The following sections describe the data structure and metadata fields collected by Seqera Platform.

#### Workflow metadata

The following metadata fields are collected and stored by the application backend during a workflow execution:

| Name                        | Description                                                                                                                                 |
| --------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `command_line`              | The command line used to launch the workflow execution                                                                                      |
| `commit_id`                 | The workflow project commit ID at the time of the execution                                                                                 |
| `complete`                  | The workflow execution completion timestamp                                                                                                 |
| `config_files`              | The Nextflow config file paths(s) involved in the workflow execution                                                                        |
| `config_text`               | The Nextflow config content used for the workflow execution. Note: secrets, such as, AWS keys are stripped and _not_ included in this field |
| `container`                 | The container image name(s) used for the pipeline execution                                                                                 |
| `container_engine`          | The container engine name used for the pipeline execution                                                                                   |
| `duration`                  | The workflow execution overall duration (wall time)                                                                                         |
| `error_message`             | The error message reported in the case of Nextflow execution failure                                                                        |
| `error_report`              | The extended error message reported in case of workflow execution error                                                                     |
| `exit_status`               | The workflow execution (POSIX) exit code                                                                                                    |
| `home_dir`                  | The launching user home directory path                                                                                                      |
| `launch_dir`                | The workflow launching directory path                                                                                                       |
| `manifest_author`           | The workflow project author as defined in the Nextflow config manifest file                                                                 |
| `manifest_default_branch`   | The workflow project default Git branch as defined in the Nextflow config manifest file                                                     |
| `manifest_description`      | The workflow project description as defined in the Nextflow config manifest file                                                            |
| `manifest_gitmodules`       | The workflow project Git submodule flag in the Nextflow config manifest file                                                                |
| `manifest_home_page`        | The workflow project Git home page as defined in the Nextflow config manifest file                                                          |
| `manifest_main_script`      | The workflow project main script file name as defined in the Nextflow config manifest file                                                  |
| `manifest_name`             | The workflow project name as defined in the Nextflow config manifest file                                                                   |
| `manifest_nextflow_version` | The workflow project required Nextflow version defined in the Nextflow config manifest file                                                 |
| `manifest_version`          | The workflow project version string as defined in the Nextflow config manifest file                                                         |
| `nextflow_build`            | The build number of the Nextflow runtime used to launch the workflow execution                                                              |
| `nextflow_timestamp`        | The build timestamp of the Nextflow runtime used to launch the workflow execution                                                           |
| `nextflow_version`          | The version string of the Nextflow runtime used to launch the workflow execution                                                            |
| `params`                    | The workflow params used to launch the pipeline execution                                                                                   |
| `profile`                   | The workflow config profile string used for the pipeline execution                                                                          |
| `project_dir`               | The directory path where the workflow scripts are stored                                                                                    |
| `project_name`              | The workflow project name                                                                                                                   |
| `repository`                | The workflow project repository                                                                                                             |
| `resume`                    | The flag set when a resume execution was submitted                                                                                          |
| `revision`                  | The workflow project revision number                                                                                                        |
| `run_name`                  | The workflow run name as given by the Nextflow runtime                                                                                      |
| `script_file`               | The workflow script file path                                                                                                               |
| `script_id`                 | The workflow script checksum number                                                                                                         |
| `script_name`               | The workflow script filename                                                                                                                |
| `session_id`                | The workflow execution unique UUID as assigned by the Nextflow runtime                                                                      |
| `start`                     | The workflow execution start timestamp                                                                                                      |
| `stats_cached_count`        | The number of cached tasks upon completion                                                                                                  |
| `stats_cached_duration`     | The aggregate time of cached tasks upon completion                                                                                          |
| `stats_cached_pct`          | The percentage of cached tasks upon completion                                                                                              |
| `stats_compute_time_fmt`    | The overall compute time as a formatted string                                                                                              |
| `stats_failed_count`        | The number of failed tasks upon completion                                                                                                  |
| `stats_failed_count_fmt`    | The number of failed tasks upon completion as a formatted string                                                                            |
| `stats_failed_duration`     | The aggregate time of failed tasks upon completion                                                                                          |
| `stats_failed_pct`          | The percentage of failed tasks upon completion                                                                                              |
| `stats_ignored_count`       | The number of ignored tasks upon completion                                                                                                 |
| `stats_ignored_count_fmt`   | The number of ignored tasks upon completion as a formatted string                                                                           |
| `stats_ignored_pct`         | The percentage of ignored tasks upon completion                                                                                             |
| `stats_succeed_count`       | The number of succeeded tasks upon completion                                                                                               |
| `stats_succeed_count_fmt`   | The number of succeeded tasks upon completion as a formatted string                                                                         |
| `stats_succeed_duration`    | The aggregate time of succeeded tasks upon completion                                                                                       |
| `stats_succeed_pct`         | The percentage of succeeded tasks upon completion                                                                                           |
| `status`                    | The workflow execution status                                                                                                               |
| `submit`                    | The workflow execution submission timestamp                                                                                                 |
| `success`                   | The flag reporting whether the execution completed successfully                                                                             |
| `user_name`                 | The POSIX user name that launched the workflow execution                                                                                    |
| `work_dir`                  | The workflow execution scratch directory path                                                                                               |

#### Task metadata

| Name           | Description                                                                                    |
| -------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `attempt`      | Number of Nextflow execution attempts of the task                                              |
| `cloud_zone`   | Cloud zone where the task execution was allocated                                              |
| `complete`     | Task execution completion timestamp                                                            |
| `container`    | Container image name used to execute the task                                                  |
| `cost`         | Estimated task compute cost                                                                    |
| `cpus`         | Number of CPUs requested                                                                       |
| `disk`         | Amount of disk storage requested                                                               |
| `duration`     | Amount of time for the task completion                                                         |
| `env`          | Task execution environment variables                                                           |
| `error_action` | Action applied on task failure                                                                 |
| `executor`     | Executor requested for the task execution                                                      |
| `exit_status`  | Task POSIX exit code on completion                                                             |
| `hash`         | Task unique hash code                                                                          |
| `inv_ctxt`     | Number of involuntary context switches                                                         |
| `machine_type` | Cloud virtual machine type                                                                     |
| `memory`       | Amount of memory requested                                                                     |
| `module`       | Environment module requested                                                                   |
| `name`         | Task unique name                                                                               |
| `native_id`    | Task unique ID as assigned by the underlying execution platform                                |
| `pcpu`         | Percentage of CPU used to compute the task                                                     |
| `peak_rss`     | Peak of real memory during the task execution                                                  |
| `peak_vmem`    | Peak of virtual memory during the task execution                                               |
| `pmem`         | Percentage of memory used to compute the task                                                  |
| `price_model`  | The cloud price model applied for the task                                                     |
| `process`      | The Nextflow process name                                                                      |
| `queue`        | The compute queue name requested                                                               |
| `rchar`        | Number of bytes the process read, using any read-like system call from files, pipes, tty, etc. |
| `read_bytes`   | Number of bytes the process directly read from disk                                            |
| `realtime`     | The time required to compute the task                                                          |
| `rss`          | Real memory (resident set) size of the process                                                 |
| `scratch`      | Flag reporting the task was executed in a local scratch path                                   |
| `script`       | The task command script                                                                        |
| `start`        | Task execution start timestamp                                                                 |
| `status`       | The task execution status                                                                      |
| `submit`       | Task submission timestamp                                                                      |
| `syscr`        | Number of read-like system call invocations that the process performed                         |
| `syscw`        | Number of write-like system call invocations that the process performed                        |
| `tag`          | Nextflow tag associated to the task execution                                                  |
| `task_id`      | Nextflow task ID                                                                               |
| `time`         | Task execution timeout requested                                                               |
| `vmem`         | Virtual memory size used by the task execution                                                 |
| `vol_ctxt`     | Number of voluntary context switches                                                           |
| `wchar`        | Number of bytes the process wrote, using any write-like system call                            |
| `workdir`      | Task execution work directory                                                                  |
| `write_bytes`  | Number of bytes the process written to disk                                                    |

Commit message:

Include behavior when user account is deleted
Include new section that details what happens when a user account is deleted.

Signed-off-by: Justine Geffen <justinegeffen@users.noreply.github.com>

platform_versioned_docs/version-24.1/data-privacy/overview.mdx, after:

---
title: "Data privacy"
description: "Overview of the data collected by Seqera Platform"
date: "21 Apr 2023"
tags: [data, privacy]
---

### Your data

Your data stays strictly within **your** infrastructure.

When you launch a workflow through Seqera Platform, you need to connect your infrastructure (HPC/VMs/K8s) by creating the appropriate credentials and compute environment in a workspace. The application then uses this configuration to trigger a Nextflow workflow within your infrastructure similar to what is done via the Nextflow CLI. The application doesn't manipulate any data itself and no data is transferred to the infrastructure where it's running.

It may be possible to access some data within your storage from the application interface - for example, viewing logs and reports generated in a pipeline run. However, this data is never stored within the platform's infrastructure.

### User deletion

When a user account is deleted, the following happens:

- Their email is changed to `none@your-domain` and any runs and runs metadata associated with their account will display that email address going forward.
- Their username is changed to `username-<timestamp of deletion>`.
- All their memberships, including team memberships, are deleted.
- All tokens are deleted.

For Enterprise installations, in addition to the above: 

- All the user's credentials are deleted.
- All the user's compute environments are deleted.
- All actions created by the user are deleted.

### Metadata stored by Seqera Platform

Workflow execution metadata is sent by the Nextflow runtime to the application when:

- When you launch a workflow with the application.
  - When you use the `-with-tower` option at the command line.
- When `tower.enabled` is specified in the Nextflow config.

The following sections describe the data structure and metadata fields collected by Seqera Platform.

#### Workflow metadata

The following metadata fields are collected and stored by the application backend during a workflow execution:

| Name                        | Description                                                                                                                                 |
| --------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `command_line`              | The command line used to launch the workflow execution                                                                                      |
| `commit_id`                 | The workflow project commit ID at the time of the execution                                                                                 |
| `complete`                  | The workflow execution completion timestamp                                                                                                 |
| `config_files`              | The Nextflow config file paths(s) involved in the workflow execution                                                                        |
| `config_text`               | The Nextflow config content used for the workflow execution. Note: secrets, such as, AWS keys are stripped and _not_ included in this field |
| `container`                 | The container image name(s) used for the pipeline execution                                                                                 |
| `container_engine`          | The container engine name used for the pipeline execution                                                                                   |
| `duration`                  | The workflow execution overall duration (wall time)                                                                                         |
| `error_message`             | The error message reported in the case of Nextflow execution failure                                                                        |
| `error_report`              | The extended error message reported in case of workflow execution error                                                                     |
| `exit_status`               | The workflow execution (POSIX) exit code                                                                                                    |
| `home_dir`                  | The launching user home directory path                                                                                                      |
| `launch_dir`                | The workflow launching directory path                                                                                                       |
| `manifest_author`           | The workflow project author as defined in the Nextflow config manifest file                                                                 |
| `manifest_default_branch`   | The workflow project default Git branch as defined in the Nextflow config manifest file                                                     |
| `manifest_description`      | The workflow project description as defined in the Nextflow config manifest file                                                            |
| `manifest_gitmodules`       | The workflow project Git submodule flag in the Nextflow config manifest file                                                                |
| `manifest_home_page`        | The workflow project Git home page as defined in the Nextflow config manifest file                                                          |
| `manifest_main_script`      | The workflow project main script file name as defined in the Nextflow config manifest file                                                  |
| `manifest_name`             | The workflow project name as defined in the Nextflow config manifest file                                                                   |
| `manifest_nextflow_version` | The workflow project required Nextflow version defined in the Nextflow config manifest file                                                 |
| `manifest_version`          | The workflow project version string as defined in the Nextflow config manifest file                                                         |
| `nextflow_build`            | The build number of the Nextflow runtime used to launch the workflow execution                                                              |
| `nextflow_timestamp`        | The build timestamp of the Nextflow runtime used to launch the workflow execution                                                           |
| `nextflow_version`          | The version string of the Nextflow runtime used to launch the workflow execution                                                            |
| `params`                    | The workflow params used to launch the pipeline execution                                                                                   |
| `profile`                   | The workflow config profile string used for the pipeline execution                                                                          |
| `project_dir`               | The directory path where the workflow scripts are stored                                                                                    |
| `project_name`              | The workflow project name                                                                                                                   |
| `repository`                | The workflow project repository                                                                                                             |
| `resume`                    | The flag set when a resume execution was submitted                                                                                          |
| `revision`                  | The workflow project revision number                                                                                                        |
| `run_name`                  | The workflow run name as given by the Nextflow runtime                                                                                      |
| `script_file`               | The workflow script file path                                                                                                               |
| `script_id`                 | The workflow script checksum number                                                                                                         |
| `script_name`               | The workflow script filename                                                                                                                |
| `session_id`                | The workflow execution unique UUID as assigned by the Nextflow runtime                                                                      |
| `start`                     | The workflow execution start timestamp                                                                                                      |
| `stats_cached_count`        | The number of cached tasks upon completion                                                                                                  |
| `stats_cached_duration`     | The aggregate time of cached tasks upon completion                                                                                          |
| `stats_cached_pct`          | The percentage of cached tasks upon completion                                                                                              |
| `stats_compute_time_fmt`    | The overall compute time as a formatted string                                                                                              |
| `stats_failed_count`        | The number of failed tasks upon completion                                                                                                  |
| `stats_failed_count_fmt`    | The number of failed tasks upon completion as a formatted string                                                                            |
| `stats_failed_duration`     | The aggregate time of failed tasks upon completion                                                                                          |
| `stats_failed_pct`          | The percentage of failed tasks upon completion                                                                                              |
| `stats_ignored_count`       | The number of ignored tasks upon completion                                                                                                 |
| `stats_ignored_count_fmt`   | The number of ignored tasks upon completion as a formatted string                                                                           |
| `stats_ignored_pct`         | The percentage of ignored tasks upon completion                                                                                             |
| `stats_succeed_count`       | The number of succeeded tasks upon completion                                                                                               |
| `stats_succeed_count_fmt`   | The number of succeeded tasks upon completion as a formatted string                                                                         |
| `stats_succeed_duration`    | The aggregate time of succeeded tasks upon completion                                                                                       |
| `stats_succeed_pct`         | The percentage of succeeded tasks upon completion                                                                                           |
| `status`                    | The workflow execution status                                                                                                               |
| `submit`                    | The workflow execution submission timestamp                                                                                                 |
| `success`                   | The flag reporting whether the execution completed successfully                                                                             |
| `user_name`                 | The POSIX user name that launched the workflow execution                                                                                    |
| `work_dir`                  | The workflow execution scratch directory path                                                                                               |

#### Task metadata

| Name           | Description                                                                                    |
| -------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `attempt`      | Number of Nextflow execution attempts of the task                                              |
| `cloud_zone`   | Cloud zone where the task execution was allocated                                              |
| `complete`     | Task execution completion timestamp                                                            |
| `container`    | Container image name used to execute the task                                                  |
| `cost`         | Estimated task compute cost                                                                    |
| `cpus`         | Number of CPUs requested                                                                       |
| `disk`         | Amount of disk storage requested                                                               |
| `duration`     | Amount of time for the task completion                                                         |
| `env`          | Task execution environment variables                                                           |
| `error_action` | Action applied on task failure                                                                 |
| `executor`     | Executor requested for the task execution                                                      |
| `exit_status`  | Task POSIX exit code on completion                                                             |
| `hash`         | Task unique hash code                                                                          |
| `inv_ctxt`     | Number of involuntary context switches                                                         |
| `machine_type` | Cloud virtual machine type                                                                     |
| `memory`       | Amount of memory requested                                                                     |
| `module`       | Environment module requested                                                                   |
| `name`         | Task unique name                                                                               |
| `native_id`    | Task unique ID as assigned by the underlying execution platform                                |
| `pcpu`         | Percentage of CPU used to compute the task                                                     |
| `peak_rss`     | Peak of real memory during the task execution                                                  |
| `peak_vmem`    | Peak of virtual memory during the task execution                                               |
| `pmem`         | Percentage of memory used to compute the task                                                  |
| `price_model`  | The cloud price model applied for the task                                                     |
| `process`      | The Nextflow process name                                                                      |
| `queue`        | The compute queue name requested                                                               |
| `rchar`        | Number of bytes the process read, using any read-like system call from files, pipes, tty, etc. |
| `read_bytes`   | Number of bytes the process directly read from disk                                            |
| `realtime`     | The time required to compute the task                                                          |
| `rss`          | Real memory (resident set) size of the process                                                 |
| `scratch`      | Flag reporting the task was executed in a local scratch path                                   |
| `script`       | The task command script                                                                        |
| `start`        | Task execution start timestamp                                                                 |
| `status`       | The task execution status                                                                      |
| `submit`       | Task submission timestamp                                                                      |
| `syscr`        | Number of read-like system call invocations that the process performed                         |
| `syscw`        | Number of write-like system call invocations that the process performed                        |
| `tag`          | Nextflow tag associated to the task execution                                                  |
| `task_id`      | Nextflow task ID                                                                               |
| `time`         | Task execution timeout requested                                                               |
| `vmem`         | Virtual memory size used by the task execution                                                 |
| `vol_ctxt`     | Number of voluntary context switches                                                           |
| `wchar`        | Number of bytes the process wrote, using any write-like system call                            |
| `workdir`      | Task execution work directory                                                                  |
| `write_bytes`  | Number of bytes the process written to disk                                                    |
