platform_versioned_docs/version-24.3/limits/limits.mdx, before:

---
title: "Usage limits"
description: "An overview of Seqera Cloud usage limits"
date: "21 Apr 2023"
tags: [limits]
---

Seqera Platform elements and features have default limits per workspace and organization.

### Workspaces

| Description  | Free | Cloud Pro + Enterprise |
| ------------ | ---- | ---------------------- |
| Active runs  | 5    | 100, or per license    |
| Members      | 50   | 50, or per license     |
| Participants | 50   | 50, or per license     |
| Pipelines    | 100  | 100, or per license    |
| Datasets     | 100  | 1000, or per license   |
| Labels       | 1000 | 1000, or per license   |

:::note 
Some Enterprise instances on older licenses are limited to 100 labels per workspace. [Contact support](mailto:support@seqera.io) to upgrade your license.
:::

### Organizations

| Description | Free | Cloud Pro + Enterprise | 
| ----------- | ---- | ---------------------- |
| Workspaces  | 50   | 50, or per license     |
| Teams       | 20   | 20, or per license     |

### Datasets

| Description          | Default limit |
| -------------------- | ------------- |
| File size            | 10 MB         |
| Versions per dataset | 100           |

### Data Studios

| Description                  | Free | Cloud Pro + Enterprise |
| ---------------------------- | ---- | ---------------------- |
| Running data studio sessions | 1    | 1000, or per license   |

If you need higher limits and capabilities, [contact us](https://seqera.io/contact-us/) to discuss your application requirements.

Commit message:

Add academic and PoC limits admonition and CTA to contact sales

platform_versioned_docs/version-24.3/limits/limits.mdx, after:

---
title: "Usage limits"
description: "An overview of Seqera Cloud usage limits"
date: "21 Apr 2023"
tags: [limits]
---

Seqera Platform elements and features have default limits per workspace and organization.

:::info 
Academic institutions and commercial organizations evaluating Seqera Platform are subject to custom usage limits. [Contact us](https://seqera.io/contact-us/) for more information. 
:::

### Workspaces

| Description  | Free | Cloud Pro + Enterprise |
| ------------ | ---- | ---------------------- |
| Active runs  | 5    | 100, or per license    |
| Members      | 50   | 50, or per license     |
| Participants | 50   | 50, or per license     |
| Pipelines    | 100  | 100, or per license    |
| Datasets     | 100  | 1000, or per license   |
| Labels       | 1000 | 1000, or per license   |

:::note 
Some Enterprise instances on older licenses are limited to 100 labels per workspace. [Contact support](mailto:support@seqera.io) to upgrade your license.
:::

### Organizations

| Description | Free | Cloud Pro + Enterprise | 
| ----------- | ---- | ---------------------- |
| Workspaces  | 50   | 50, or per license     |
| Teams       | 20   | 20, or per license     |

### Datasets

| Description          | Default limit |
| -------------------- | ------------- |
| File size            | 10 MB         |
| Versions per dataset | 100           |

### Data Studios

| Description                  | Free | Cloud Pro + Enterprise |
| ---------------------------- | ---- | ---------------------- |
| Running data studio sessions | 1    | 1000, or per license   |

If you need higher limits and capabilities, [contact us](https://seqera.io/contact-us/) to discuss your application requirements.
