platform-cloud/docs/getting-started/quickstart-demo/monitor-runs.md, before:

---
title: "Monitor runs"
description: "An introduction to monitoring runs in Seqera Platform"
date: "8 Jul 2024"
tags: [platform, monitoring]
---

There are several ways to monitor pipeline runs in Seqera Platform:

### Workspace view

Access a full history of all runs in a given workspace via the **Runs** tab.
    
![View runs](assets/sp-cloud-view-all-runs.gif)

### All runs view

Access the **All runs** page from the user menu. This page provides a comprehensive overview of the runs across the entire Platform instance. The default view includes all organizations and workspaces accessible to the user. However, you can select visible workspaces from the dropdown next to **View**, and filter for a particular set of runs using any of the following fields:

- `status`
- `label`
- `workflowId`
- `runName`
- `username`
- `projectName`
- `after: YYYY-MM-DD`
- `before: YYYY-MM-DD`
- `sessionId`
- `is:starred`

For example:

```
rnaseq username:johndoe status:succeeded after:2024-01-01
```

![All Runs view](assets/all_runs_view.gif)

### Dashboard view

Access the **Dashboard** from the user menu. This page provides an overview of the total runs across the Platform instance, grouped by run status. The default view includes all organizations and workspaces accessible to the user. Select visible workspaces from the dropdown next to **View** and filter by time, including a custom date range up to 12 months. Select **Export data** to download a CSV file with the available export data.

![Dashboard view](./assets/dashboard_view.gif)

Commit message:

Add system-dependence information for timezones (#650)
* Add system-dependence information for timezones

Addresses https://seqera.atlassian.net/browse/EDU-708. Also fixed some formatting that was inconsistent. 

Signed-off-by: Justine Geffen <justinegeffen@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update monitor-runs.md

Signed-off-by: Justine Geffen <justinegeffen@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update pipeline-optimization.md

Signed-off-by: Justine Geffen <justinegeffen@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update studios.md

Signed-off-by: Justine Geffen <justinegeffen@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update view-run-information.md

Signed-off-by: Justine Geffen <justinegeffen@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update overview.md

Signed-off-by: Justine Geffen <justinegeffen@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update proteinfold.md

Signed-off-by: Justine Geffen <justinegeffen@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update rnaseq.md

Signed-off-by: Justine Geffen <justinegeffen@users.noreply.github.com>

* Apply suggestions from code review

Signed-off-by: Justine Geffen <justinegeffen@users.noreply.github.com>

* Revert formatting. Redo

* Path formatting

* Additional fixes for Ent docs

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Chris Hakkaart <chris.hakkaart@seqera.io>
Signed-off-by: Justine Geffen <justinegeffen@users.noreply.github.com>

* Additional changes and file extension changes

* edit

---------

Signed-off-by: Justine Geffen <justinegeffen@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Chris Hakkaart <chris.hakkaart@seqera.io>

platform-cloud/docs/getting-started/quickstart-demo/monitor-runs.md, after:

---
title: "Monitor runs"
description: "An introduction to monitoring runs in Seqera Platform"
date: "8 Jul 2024"
tags: [platform, monitoring]
---

There are several ways to monitor pipeline runs in Seqera Platform:

### Workspace view

Access a full history of all runs in a given workspace via the **Runs** tab.
    
![View runs](assets/sp-cloud-view-all-runs.gif)

### All runs view

Access the **All runs** page from the user menu. This page provides a comprehensive overview of the runs across the entire Platform instance. The default view includes all organizations and workspaces accessible to the user. However, you can select visible workspaces from the dropdown next to **View**, and filter for a particular set of runs using any of the following fields:

- `status`
- `label`
- `workflowId`
- `runName`
- `username`
- `projectName`
- `after: YYYY-MM-DD`
- `before: YYYY-MM-DD`
- `sessionId`
- `is:starred`

For example:

```
rnaseq username:johndoe status:succeeded after:2024-01-01
```

![All Runs view](assets/all_runs_view.gif)

### Dashboard view

Access the **Dashboard** from the user menu. This page provides an overview of the total runs across the Platform instance, grouped by run status. The default view includes all organizations and workspaces accessible to the user. Select visible workspaces from the dropdown next to **View** and filter by time, including a custom date range up to 12 months. The time displayed is based on your local timezone defined in your device's system settings. Select **Export data** to download a CSV file with the available export data.

![Dashboard view](./assets/dashboard_view.gif)
