platform-api-docs/docs/seqera-api.info.mdx, before:

---
id: seqera-api
title: "Seqera API"
description: "Seqera Platform services API"
sidebar_label: Introduction
sidebar_position: 0
hide_title: true
custom_edit_url: null
---

import ApiLogo from "@theme/ApiLogo";
import Heading from "@theme/Heading";
import SchemaTabs from "@theme/SchemaTabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";
import Export from "@theme/ApiExplorer/Export";
import MDXComponents from "@theme-original/MDXComponents";
import Button from "@site/src/components/Button";

<span
  className={"theme-doc-version-badge badge badge--secondary"}
  children={"Version: 1.39.0"}
>
</span>

<Heading
  as={"h1"}
  className={"openapi__heading"}
  children={"Seqera API"}
>
</Heading>

The Seqera Platform services API is a programmatic interface for all operations available in the Platform web UI. This allows organizations to integrate Platform seamlessly into existing processes.

<div
  style={{"marginBottom":"2rem"}}
>
  <Heading
    id={"authentication"}
    as={"h2"}
    className={"openapi-tabs__heading"}
    children={"Authentication"}
  >
  </Heading><SchemaTabs
    className={"openapi-tabs__security-schemes"}
  >
    <TabItem
      label={"HTTP: Bearer Auth"}
      value={"BearerAuth"}
    >
      
      
      
      
      <div>
        <table>
          <tbody>
            <tr>
              <th>
                Security Scheme Type:
              </th><td>
                http
              </td>
            </tr><tr>
              <th>
                HTTP Authorization Scheme:
              </th><td>
                bearer
              </td>
            </tr><tr>
              <th>
                Bearer format:
              </th><td>
                jwt
              </td>
            </tr>
          </tbody>
        </table>
      </div>
    </TabItem>
  </SchemaTabs>
</div>

:::info
The API requires authentication with a Platform access token to perform requests.

<Button to="https://cloud.seqera.io/tokens" secondary medium alt>Create an access token</Button>
:::

### OpenAPI specification

<p>
  <Button to="https://cloud.seqera.io/openapi/seqera-api-latest.yml" secondary medium alt>Download OpenAPI schema file</Button>
</p>

The API and its interactive reference documentation is built on the OpenAPI standard.

:::tip
For more information on the OpenAPI standard, see [OpenAPI](https://swagger.io/specification/).
:::

### Encoding and formatting standards

- For Seqera Cloud accounts, the API can be accessed from `https://api.cloud.seqera.io`.
- All API endpoints use HTTPS, and all request and response payloads use [JSON](https://www.json.org/) encoding.
- All timestamps use the [ISO 8601](https://www.iso.org/iso-8601-date-and-time-format.html) date-time standard format: `YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SSZ`.

:::note
From version 23.4, the Platform API is live on `https://api.cloud.seqera.io`. The legacy API `https://api.tower.nf` remains fully operational, so existing API integrations will continue to perform as expected. Deprecation of the legacy API will be communicated well in advance to avoid any breaking changes to your integrations.
:::

### Programmatic API

Both the [Seqera Platform CLI](https://docs.seqera.io/platform-cloud/cli/overview) and [seqerakit](https://docs.seqera.io/platform-cloud/seqerakit/installation) are built on the Platform API and provide a programmatic automation layer for operations.

You can also use tools such as [openapi-python-client](https://github.com/openapi-generators/openapi-python-client) to generate your own programmatic API for a particular language (such as Python) based on the OpenAPI schema. However, we do not guarantee that any OpenAPI client generators will work with the Platform API.

Commit message:

Making API versioning policy explicit. (#669)
* Making API versioning policy explicit.

* Adding more context per Daria's review.

* fixing an error on my part

* Update platform-cloud/docs/api/overview.mdx

Co-authored-by: Justine Geffen <justinegeffen@users.noreply.github.com>
Signed-off-by: Llewellyn vd Berg <113503285+llewellyn-sl@users.noreply.github.com>

* changes to address all review comments

* Update platform-cloud/docs/api/overview.mdx

Co-authored-by: Tomás Crespo García <t.crespo.g@outlook.com>
Signed-off-by: Justine Geffen <justinegeffen@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update seqera-api.info.mdx

* Update overview.mdx

---------

Signed-off-by: Llewellyn vd Berg <113503285+llewellyn-sl@users.noreply.github.com>
Signed-off-by: Justine Geffen <justinegeffen@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Andrew Dawson <andrewdawson@Andrews-MacBook-Pro.local>
Co-authored-by: Llewellyn vd Berg <113503285+llewellyn-sl@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Justine Geffen <justinegeffen@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Tomás Crespo García <t.crespo.g@outlook.com>

platform-api-docs/docs/seqera-api.info.mdx, after:

---
id: seqera-api
title: "Seqera API"
description: "Seqera Platform services API"
sidebar_label: Introduction
sidebar_position: 0
hide_title: true
custom_edit_url: null
---

import ApiLogo from "@theme/ApiLogo";
import Heading from "@theme/Heading";
import SchemaTabs from "@theme/SchemaTabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";
import Export from "@theme/ApiExplorer/Export";
import MDXComponents from "@theme-original/MDXComponents";
import Button from "@site/src/components/Button";

<span
  className={"theme-doc-version-badge badge badge--secondary"}
  children={"Version: 1.39.0"}
>
</span>

<Heading
  as={"h1"}
  className={"openapi__heading"}
  children={"Seqera API"}
>
</Heading>

The Seqera Platform services API is a programmatic interface for all operations available in the Platform web UI. This allows organizations to integrate Platform seamlessly into existing processes.

<div
  style={{"marginBottom":"2rem"}}
>
  <Heading
    id={"authentication"}
    as={"h2"}
    className={"openapi-tabs__heading"}
    children={"Authentication"}
  >
  </Heading><SchemaTabs
    className={"openapi-tabs__security-schemes"}
  >
    <TabItem
      label={"HTTP: Bearer Auth"}
      value={"BearerAuth"}
    >
      
      
      
      
      <div>
        <table>
          <tbody>
            <tr>
              <th>
                Security Scheme Type:
              </th><td>
                http
              </td>
            </tr><tr>
              <th>
                HTTP Authorization Scheme:
              </th><td>
                bearer
              </td>
            </tr><tr>
              <th>
                Bearer format:
              </th><td>
                jwt
              </td>
            </tr>
          </tbody>
        </table>
      </div>
    </TabItem>
  </SchemaTabs>
</div>

:::info
The API requires authentication with a Platform access token to perform requests.

<Button to="https://cloud.seqera.io/tokens" secondary medium alt>Create an access token</Button>
:::

### OpenAPI specification

<p>
  <Button to="https://cloud.seqera.io/openapi/seqera-api-latest.yml" secondary medium alt>Download OpenAPI schema file</Button>
</p>

The API and its interactive reference documentation is built on the OpenAPI standard.

:::tip
For more information on the OpenAPI standard, see [OpenAPI](https://swagger.io/specification/).
:::

### API versioning

The API uses the [semantic versioning convention](https://semver.org/) (major.minor.patch). In the event that a breaking change is introduced in future versions, we will publish guidance on the v1 support schedule and steps to mitigate disruption to your production environment.

- Adding new API endpoints, new HTTP methods to existing endpoints, request parameters, or response fields
- Adding new values to existing enums or string constants
- Expanding accepted input formats or value ranges
- Adding new optional headers or query parameters
- Improving error messages or adding new error codes
- Deprecation warnings (without removal)

Clients should be designed to gracefully handle unknown enum values, ignore unrecognized response fields, and not rely on specific error message text.


### Encoding and formatting standards

- For Seqera Cloud accounts, the API can be accessed from `https://api.cloud.seqera.io`.
- All API endpoints use HTTPS, and all request and response payloads use [JSON](https://www.json.org/) encoding.
- All timestamps use the [ISO 8601](https://www.iso.org/iso-8601-date-and-time-format.html) date-time standard format: `YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SSZ`.

:::note
From version 23.4, the Platform API is live on `https://api.cloud.seqera.io`. The legacy API `https://api.tower.nf` remains fully operational, so existing API integrations will continue to perform as expected. Deprecation of the legacy API will be communicated well in advance to avoid any breaking changes to your integrations.
:::

### Programmatic API

Both the [Seqera Platform CLI](https://docs.seqera.io/platform-cloud/cli/overview) and [seqerakit](https://docs.seqera.io/platform-cloud/seqerakit/installation) are built on the Platform API and provide a programmatic automation layer for operations.

You can also use tools such as [openapi-python-client](https://github.com/openapi-generators/openapi-python-client) to generate your own programmatic API for a particular language (such as Python) based on the OpenAPI schema. However, we do not guarantee that any OpenAPI client generators will work with the Platform API.
