platform_versioned_docs/version-23.4/credentials/aws_registry_credentials.mdx, before:

---
title: "AWS ECR credentials"
description: "Instructions to create AWS ECR credentials in Seqera Platform."
date: "21 Apr 2023"
tags: [aws, ecr, credentials]
---

From version 22.3, Seqera Platform supports the configuration of credentials for the Nextflow Wave container service to authenticate to private and public container registries. For more information on Wave containers, see [the Nextflow documentation](https://www.nextflow.io/docs/latest/wave.html).

:::note
Container registry credentials are only used by the Wave container service. Add `wave { enabled=true }` to the **Nextflow config** field on the launch page, or to your `nextflow.config` file, for your pipeline execution to use Wave containers.
:::

## AWS ECR access

Wave requires programmatic access to your private Elastic Container Registry (ECR) via [long-term access keys](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/aws-sec-cred-types.html#create-long-term-access-keys). Create a user with registry read permissions (e.g., a subset of the AWS-managed `AmazonEC2ContainerRegistryReadOnly` policy) for this purpose.

**Create an IAM user with AWS ECR access**

1. Open the [IAM console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/).
2. Select **Users** from the navigation pane.
3. Select the name of the user whose keys you want to manage, then select the **Security credentials** tab. We recommend creating an IAM user specifically for Wave authentication instead of using existing credentials with broader permissions.
4. In the **Access keys** section, select **Create access key**. Each IAM user can have only two access keys at a time, so if the Create option is deactivated, delete an existing access key first.
5. On the **Access key best practices & alternatives** page, select **Other** and then **Next**.
6. On the **Retrieve access key** page, you can either **Show** the user's secret access key details, or store them by selecting **Download .csv file**.
7. The newly created access key pair is active by default and can be stored as a container registry credential in Seqera.

:::note
Your credential must be stored in Seqera Platform as a **container registry** credential, even if the same access keys already exist as a workspace credential.
:::

## Add credentials to Seqera

1.  Add your credentials to your organization or personal workspace:
    - From an organization workspace: Go to **Credentials > Add Credentials**.
    - From your personal workspace: From the user menu, go to **Your credentials > Add credentials**.

2.  Complete the following fields:

    - **Name**: Specify a unique name for the credentials using alphanumeric characters, dashes, or underscores. For example, `my-registry-creds`.
    - **Provider**: Select **Container registry**.
    - **User name**: Specify your IAM user access key ID. For example, `AKIAIOSFODNN7EXAMPLE`.
    - **Password**: Specify your IAM user secret access.
    - **Registry server**: Specify container registry server name. For example, `<aws_account_id>.dkr.ecr.<region>.amazonaws.com`.

3.  After you've completed all the form fields, select **Add**. The new credential is now listed under the **Credentials** tab.

Commit message:

[EDU-14] AWS registry credential update
https://seqera.atlassian.net/browse/EDU-14

Signed-off-by: Justine Geffen <justinegeffen@users.noreply.github.com>

platform_versioned_docs/version-23.4/credentials/aws_registry_credentials.mdx, after:

---
title: "AWS ECR credentials"
description: "Instructions to create AWS ECR credentials in Seqera Platform."
date: "21 Apr 2023"
tags: [aws, ecr, credentials]
---

From version 22.3, Seqera Platform supports the configuration of credentials for the Nextflow Wave container service to authenticate to private and public container registries. For more information on Wave containers, see [the Nextflow documentation](https://www.nextflow.io/docs/latest/wave.html).

:::note
Container registry credentials are only used by the Wave container service. Add `wave { enabled=true }` to the **Nextflow config** field on the launch page, or to your `nextflow.config` file, for your pipeline execution to use Wave containers.
:::

## AWS ECR access

Wave requires programmatic access to your private Elastic Container Registry (ECR) via [long-term access keys](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/aws-sec-cred-types.html#create-long-term-access-keys). Create a user with registry read permissions (e.g., a subset of the AWS-managed `AmazonEC2ContainerRegistryReadOnly` policy) for this purpose.

**Create an IAM user with AWS ECR access**

1. Open the [IAM console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/).
2. Select **Users** from the navigation pane.
3. Select the name of the user whose keys you want to manage, then select the **Security credentials** tab. We recommend creating an IAM user specifically for Wave authentication instead of using existing credentials with broader permissions.
4. In the **Access keys** section, select **Create access key**. Each IAM user can have only two access keys at a time, so if the Create option is deactivated, delete an existing access key first.
5. On the **Access key best practices & alternatives** page, select **Other** and then **Next**.
6. On the **Retrieve access key** page, you can either **Show** the user's secret access key details, or store them by selecting **Download .csv file**.
7. The newly created access key pair is active by default and can be stored as a container registry credential in Seqera.

:::note
Your credential must be stored in Seqera Platform as a **container registry** credential, even if the same access keys already exist as a workspace credential.
:::

## Add credentials to Seqera

1.  Add your credentials to your organization or personal workspace:
    - From an organization workspace: Go to **Credentials > Add Credentials**.
    - From your personal workspace: From the user menu, go to **Your credentials > Add credentials**.

2.  Complete the following fields:

    - **Name**: Specify a unique name for the credentials using alphanumeric characters, dashes, or underscores. For example, `my-registry-creds`.
    - **Provider**: Select **Container registry**.
    - **User name**: Specify your IAM user access key ID. For example, `AKIAIOSFODNN7EXAMPLE`.
    - **Password**: Specify your IAM user secret access.
    - **Registry server**: Specify container registry server name. For example, `<aws_account_id>.dkr.ecr.<region>.amazonaws.com`. 

3.  After you've completed all the form fields, select **Add**. The new credential is now listed under the **Credentials** tab.

Create a separate credential if you want to access images from a public ECR using `public.ecr.aws`, following the same steps as above.
