platform_versioned_docs/version-23.4.0/enterprise/configuration/authentication.mdx, before:

---
title: "Authentication"
description: Seqera configuration options for authentication
date: "21 Apr 2023"
tags: [authentication, configuration]
---

Seqera Platform supports email and various OAuth providers for login authentication. 

:::note
Platform login sessions remain active as long as the application browser tab remains open and active.
:::

## OpenID Connect configuration

Seqera Enterprise can be configured to integrate with several authentication providers to enable single sign-on (SSO) login.

Configure OIDC authentication with the following environment variables:

- `TOWER_OIDC_CLIENT`: The client ID provided by your authentication service.
- `TOWER_OIDC_SECRET`: The client secret provided by your authentication service.
- `TOWER_OIDC_ISSUER`: The authentication service URL to which Seqera connects to authenticate the sign-in request, e.g., `https://dev-886323.okta.com/oauth2/default`.

Some providers require the full authentication service URL (such as the Okta example above), while others require only the SSO root domain (without the trailing sub-directories).

In your OpenID provider settings, specify the following URL as a callback address or authorized redirect:

```
https://<YOUR HOST OR IP>/oauth/callback/oidc
```

## Identity providers

The following identity providers are currently supported:

- GitHub
- Google
- Keycloak
- Okta

### GitHub identity provider

To use GitHub as SSO provider for Seqera:

1. Register your Seqera instance as a [GitHub OAuth App](https://docs.github.com/en/apps/oauth-apps/building-oauth-apps/creating-an-oauth-app)
   in your organization settings page.

2. When creating the OAuth App, specify the following path as callback URL: `https://<your-deployment-domain-name>/oauth/callback/github` (replace `<your-deployment-domain-name>` with the domain name of your deployment).

3. Include the following variables in the backend environment configuration:

   - `TOWER_GITHUB_CLIENT`: The client ID provided by GitHub when registering the new OAuth App.
   - `TOWER_GITHUB_SECRET`: The client secret provided by GitHub when registering the new OAuth App.

### Google Cloud identity provider

To use Google as the identity provider for Seqera:

1. Visit the [Google Cloud console](https://console.developers.google.com) and create a new project.
2. From the sidebar, select the **Credentials** tab.
3. Select **Create credentials > OAuth client ID**.
4. On the next page, select **Web Application** type.
5. Enter the redirect URL: `https://<your-deployment-domain-name>/oauth/callback/google` (replace `<{your-deployment-domain-name>` with the domain name of your deployment).
6. Confirm the operation. You'll then receive a `client ID` and `secret ID`.
7. Include the `client ID` and `secret ID` in the following variables in the Seqera backend environment configuration:

- `TOWER_GOOGLE_CLIENT`: The client ID provided by Google above.
- `TOWER_GOOGLE_SECRET`: The client secret provided by Google above.

### Keycloak identity provider

To use [Keycloak](https://www.keycloak.org/) as the identity provider for Seqera, configure a new client in your Keycloak service with these steps:

1. In the **Realm settings**, ensure the **Endpoints** field includes _OpenID Endpoint Configuration_.
2. Open the **Client** page and select **Create** to set up a new client for Seqera.
3. In the **Settings** tag, include the following fields:
   - **Client Id**: An ID of your choice, e.g., `seqera`
   - **Enabled**: `ON`
   - **Client Protocol**: `openid-connect`
   - **Access Type**: `confidential`
   - **Standard Flow Enabled**: `ON`
   - **Implicit Flow Enabled**: `OFF`
   - **Direct Access Grants Enabled**: `ON`
   - **Valid Redirect URIs**: https:///\<YOUR HOST\>//oauth/callback/oidc, e.g., `http://localhost:8000/oauth/callback/oidc`
4. Select **Save**.
5. In the **Credentials** tab, note the **Secret** field.
6. In the **Keys** tab, set the field **Use JWKS URL** to `OFF`.
7. Complete the setup in Seqera by adding the following environment variables to your configuration:

   - `TOWER_OIDC_CLIENT`: The client ID assigned in step 3 above.
   - `TOWER_OIDC_SECRET`: The contents of the **Secret** field noted in step 5 above.
   - `TOWER_OIDC_ISSUER`: The Keycloak issuer URL. Locate this on the **Realm Settings** page, from _OpenID Configuration_ in the **Endpoints** field. From the JSON payload displayed, copy the value associated with `issues`, e.g., `http://localhost:9000/auth/realms/master`.

### Entra ID OIDC provider

To use [Entra ID OIDC](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity-platform/v2-protocols-oidc) as the identity provider for Seqera, configure a new client in your Entra ID service:

1. Log in to the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com/).
2. Go to the **Entra ID** service.
3. Select **Manage Tenants**.
4. Create a new **Tenant**, e.g., `SeqeraOrg`.
5. Select the new tenant.
6. Go to **App Registrations**.
7. Select **New Registration** and specify the following:

   1. A name for the application.
   2. The scope of user verification (e.g., single tenant, multi-tenant, personal MSFT accounts, etc).

:::note
The Entra ID app must have user consent settings configured to **Allow user consent for apps** to ensure that admin approval is not required for each application login. See [User consent settings](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/manage-apps/configure-user-consent?pivots=portal#configure-user-consent-settings).
:::

8. Specify the **Redirect** (callback) URI.

:::note
This must be an `https://` URI, per Microsoft's requirements.
:::

9. Open the newly-created app:

   1. Note the `Application (client) ID` on the **Essentials** table.
   2. Generate **Client credentials** on the **Essentials** table.
   3. Select **Endpoints** and note the OpenID Connect metadata document URI.

10. Add users to your tenant as required.
11. Complete the setup in Seqera by adding the following environment variables to your configuration:

    ```bash
    TOWER_OIDC_CLIENT=<YOUR_APPLICATION_ID>
    TOWER_OIDC_SECRET=<YOUR_CLIENT_CREDENTIALS_SECRET>
    TOWER_OIDC_ISSUER=<YOUR_OIDC_METADATA_URL_UP_TO_"v2.0">   (e.g. https://login.microsoftonline.com/000000-0000-0000-00-0000000000000/v2.0)
    ```

12. Add `auth-oidc` to the `MICRONAUT_ENVIRONMENTS` environment variable for both the `cron` and `backend` services.

### Okta identity provider

To use [Okta](https://www.okta.com/) as the identity provider for Seqera:

1. Sign in to your Okta organization with your administrator account.
2. From the **Admin Console** side navigation, select **Applications > Applications**.
3. Select **Add Application**.
4. Select **Create New App**.
5. Select the **OpenID Connect** sign-on method.
6. Select **Create**.
7. Enter a name for your new app integration, e.g., `Seqera`.
8. In **Configure OpenID Connect**, add the following redirect URIs:

   - **Sign-in redirect URIs** : `https://<YOUR HOST OR IP>/oauth/callback/oidc`
   - **Sign-out redirect URIs** : `https://<YOUR HOST OR IP>/logout`

9. Select **Save**.
10. Okta automatically redirects to your new application settings. Complete the setup in Seqera by adding the following environment variables to your configuration:

    - `TOWER_OIDC_CLIENT`: Copy the **Client ID** value from **General > Client Credentials** for the corresponding app client configuration.
    - `TOWER_OIDC_SECRET`: Copy the **Client secret** value from **General > Client Credentials** for the corresponding app client configuration.
    - `TOWER_OIDC_ISSUER`: Copy the Okta issuer URL from **Sign On > OpenID Connect ID Token** for the corresponding app client configuration.

## Configure user access allow list

When using a public authentication provider such as Google or GitHub, you may need to restrict the access to specific user email addresses or domains.

Replace `<PROVIDER>` in the snippets below with `github`, `google`, or `oidc`. `oidc` is used to specify any other authentication service based on OpenID Connect, such as Okta, Entra ID, Keycloak, etc. Include each provider separately if you specify more than one.

The allow list entries are case-insensitive.

**Environment variables**

```env
TOWER_AUTH_<PROVIDER>_ALLOW_LIST=*@foo.com,user1@bar.com
```

**tower.yml**

```yaml

tower:
auth:
   <PROVIDER>:
      allow-list:
      - "*@foo.com"
      - "me@bar.com"

```

Commit message:

Updated note with 6 hour time for logout
Updated the note to cover the requirement here https://github.com/seqeralabs/nf-tower-docs/issues/629. 

Signed-off-by: Justine Geffen <justinegeffen@users.noreply.github.com>

platform_versioned_docs/version-23.4.0/enterprise/configuration/authentication.mdx, after:

---
title: "Authentication"
description: Seqera configuration options for authentication
date: "21 Apr 2023"
tags: [authentication, configuration]
---

Seqera Platform supports email and various OAuth providers for login authentication. 

:::note
Platform login sessions remain active as long as the application browser tab remains open and active. When the browser window is terminated, automatic logout occurs within 6 hours.
:::

## OpenID Connect configuration

Seqera Enterprise can be configured to integrate with several authentication providers to enable single sign-on (SSO) login.

Configure OIDC authentication with the following environment variables:

- `TOWER_OIDC_CLIENT`: The client ID provided by your authentication service.
- `TOWER_OIDC_SECRET`: The client secret provided by your authentication service.
- `TOWER_OIDC_ISSUER`: The authentication service URL to which Seqera connects to authenticate the sign-in request, e.g., `https://dev-886323.okta.com/oauth2/default`.

Some providers require the full authentication service URL (such as the Okta example above), while others require only the SSO root domain (without the trailing sub-directories).

In your OpenID provider settings, specify the following URL as a callback address or authorized redirect:

```
https://<YOUR HOST OR IP>/oauth/callback/oidc
```

## Identity providers

The following identity providers are currently supported:

- GitHub
- Google
- Keycloak
- Okta

### GitHub identity provider

To use GitHub as SSO provider for Seqera:

1. Register your Seqera instance as a [GitHub OAuth App](https://docs.github.com/en/apps/oauth-apps/building-oauth-apps/creating-an-oauth-app)
   in your organization settings page.

2. When creating the OAuth App, specify the following path as callback URL: `https://<your-deployment-domain-name>/oauth/callback/github` (replace `<your-deployment-domain-name>` with the domain name of your deployment).

3. Include the following variables in the backend environment configuration:

   - `TOWER_GITHUB_CLIENT`: The client ID provided by GitHub when registering the new OAuth App.
   - `TOWER_GITHUB_SECRET`: The client secret provided by GitHub when registering the new OAuth App.

### Google Cloud identity provider

To use Google as the identity provider for Seqera:

1. Visit the [Google Cloud console](https://console.developers.google.com) and create a new project.
2. From the sidebar, select the **Credentials** tab.
3. Select **Create credentials > OAuth client ID**.
4. On the next page, select **Web Application** type.
5. Enter the redirect URL: `https://<your-deployment-domain-name>/oauth/callback/google` (replace `<{your-deployment-domain-name>` with the domain name of your deployment).
6. Confirm the operation. You'll then receive a `client ID` and `secret ID`.
7. Include the `client ID` and `secret ID` in the following variables in the Seqera backend environment configuration:

- `TOWER_GOOGLE_CLIENT`: The client ID provided by Google above.
- `TOWER_GOOGLE_SECRET`: The client secret provided by Google above.

### Keycloak identity provider

To use [Keycloak](https://www.keycloak.org/) as the identity provider for Seqera, configure a new client in your Keycloak service with these steps:

1. In the **Realm settings**, ensure the **Endpoints** field includes _OpenID Endpoint Configuration_.
2. Open the **Client** page and select **Create** to set up a new client for Seqera.
3. In the **Settings** tag, include the following fields:
   - **Client Id**: An ID of your choice, e.g., `seqera`
   - **Enabled**: `ON`
   - **Client Protocol**: `openid-connect`
   - **Access Type**: `confidential`
   - **Standard Flow Enabled**: `ON`
   - **Implicit Flow Enabled**: `OFF`
   - **Direct Access Grants Enabled**: `ON`
   - **Valid Redirect URIs**: https:///\<YOUR HOST\>//oauth/callback/oidc, e.g., `http://localhost:8000/oauth/callback/oidc`
4. Select **Save**.
5. In the **Credentials** tab, note the **Secret** field.
6. In the **Keys** tab, set the field **Use JWKS URL** to `OFF`.
7. Complete the setup in Seqera by adding the following environment variables to your configuration:

   - `TOWER_OIDC_CLIENT`: The client ID assigned in step 3 above.
   - `TOWER_OIDC_SECRET`: The contents of the **Secret** field noted in step 5 above.
   - `TOWER_OIDC_ISSUER`: The Keycloak issuer URL. Locate this on the **Realm Settings** page, from _OpenID Configuration_ in the **Endpoints** field. From the JSON payload displayed, copy the value associated with `issues`, e.g., `http://localhost:9000/auth/realms/master`.

### Entra ID OIDC provider

To use [Entra ID OIDC](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity-platform/v2-protocols-oidc) as the identity provider for Seqera, configure a new client in your Entra ID service:

1. Log in to the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com/).
2. Go to the **Entra ID** service.
3. Select **Manage Tenants**.
4. Create a new **Tenant**, e.g., `SeqeraOrg`.
5. Select the new tenant.
6. Go to **App Registrations**.
7. Select **New Registration** and specify the following:

   1. A name for the application.
   2. The scope of user verification (e.g., single tenant, multi-tenant, personal MSFT accounts, etc).

:::note
The Entra ID app must have user consent settings configured to **Allow user consent for apps** to ensure that admin approval is not required for each application login. See [User consent settings](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/manage-apps/configure-user-consent?pivots=portal#configure-user-consent-settings).
:::

8. Specify the **Redirect** (callback) URI.

:::note
This must be an `https://` URI, per Microsoft's requirements.
:::

9. Open the newly-created app:

   1. Note the `Application (client) ID` on the **Essentials** table.
   2. Generate **Client credentials** on the **Essentials** table.
   3. Select **Endpoints** and note the OpenID Connect metadata document URI.

10. Add users to your tenant as required.
11. Complete the setup in Seqera by adding the following environment variables to your configuration:

    ```bash
    TOWER_OIDC_CLIENT=<YOUR_APPLICATION_ID>
    TOWER_OIDC_SECRET=<YOUR_CLIENT_CREDENTIALS_SECRET>
    TOWER_OIDC_ISSUER=<YOUR_OIDC_METADATA_URL_UP_TO_"v2.0">   (e.g. https://login.microsoftonline.com/000000-0000-0000-00-0000000000000/v2.0)
    ```

12. Add `auth-oidc` to the `MICRONAUT_ENVIRONMENTS` environment variable for both the `cron` and `backend` services.

### Okta identity provider

To use [Okta](https://www.okta.com/) as the identity provider for Seqera:

1. Sign in to your Okta organization with your administrator account.
2. From the **Admin Console** side navigation, select **Applications > Applications**.
3. Select **Add Application**.
4. Select **Create New App**.
5. Select the **OpenID Connect** sign-on method.
6. Select **Create**.
7. Enter a name for your new app integration, e.g., `Seqera`.
8. In **Configure OpenID Connect**, add the following redirect URIs:

   - **Sign-in redirect URIs** : `https://<YOUR HOST OR IP>/oauth/callback/oidc`
   - **Sign-out redirect URIs** : `https://<YOUR HOST OR IP>/logout`

9. Select **Save**.
10. Okta automatically redirects to your new application settings. Complete the setup in Seqera by adding the following environment variables to your configuration:

    - `TOWER_OIDC_CLIENT`: Copy the **Client ID** value from **General > Client Credentials** for the corresponding app client configuration.
    - `TOWER_OIDC_SECRET`: Copy the **Client secret** value from **General > Client Credentials** for the corresponding app client configuration.
    - `TOWER_OIDC_ISSUER`: Copy the Okta issuer URL from **Sign On > OpenID Connect ID Token** for the corresponding app client configuration.

## Configure user access allow list

When using a public authentication provider such as Google or GitHub, you may need to restrict the access to specific user email addresses or domains.

Replace `<PROVIDER>` in the snippets below with `github`, `google`, or `oidc`. `oidc` is used to specify any other authentication service based on OpenID Connect, such as Okta, Entra ID, Keycloak, etc. Include each provider separately if you specify more than one.

The allow list entries are case-insensitive.

**Environment variables**

```env
TOWER_AUTH_<PROVIDER>_ALLOW_LIST=*@foo.com,user1@bar.com
```

**tower.yml**

```yaml

tower:
auth:
   <PROVIDER>:
      allow-list:
      - "*@foo.com"
      - "me@bar.com"

```
