platform_versioned_docs/version-23.4.0/enterprise/configuration/aws_parameter_store.mdx, before:

---
title: "AWS Parameter Store"
description: Configure values for Seqera configuration with AWS Parameter Store
date: "21 Apr 2023"
tags: [configuration, aws, parameter, securestring]
---

From version 23.1, Seqera Platform Enterprise can fetch configuration values from the AWS Parameter Store.

:::caution
`TOWER_DB_USER`, `TOWER_DB_PASSWORD`, and `TOWER_DB_URL` values must be specified using **environment variables** during initial Seqera Enterprise deployment in a new environment. A new installation will fail if DB values are only defined in `tower.yml` or the AWS Parameter Store.

After the database has been created, these values can be added to AWS Parameter Store entries and removed from your environment variables.
:::

## Configuration values not supported in AWS Parameter Store

Due to the order of operations when deploying Seqera Enterprise, some configuration values can only be retrieved from **environment variables** (`tower.env`). The following configuration values are not supported by AWS Parameter Store and must be set as environment variables:

| Environment Variable      | Description                                                                                                     | Value                                                                                             |
| ------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `TOWER_DB_USER`           | The user account to access your database. If you are using an external database, you must create this user manually. **For installation in a new environment, this value must be set as an environment variable.** | Default: `tower` |
| `TOWER_DB_PASSWORD`       | The user password to access your database. If you are using an external database, you must create this password manually. **For installation in a new environment, this value must be set as an environment variable.** | Default: `tower` |
| `TOWER_DB_URL`            | The URL to access your database. **For installation in a new environment, this value must be set as an environment variable.** | Example: `jdbc:mysql://db:3306/tower` |
| `TOWER_APP_NAME`          | Application name. To run multiple instances of the same Seqera account, each instance must have a unique name, e.g., `tower-dev` and `tower-prod`. **Can also be set in `tower.yml` with `tower.appName`.** | Default: `tower` |
| `TOWER_ENABLE_AWS_SES`   | Set `true` to enable AWS Simple Email Service for sending Seqera emails instead of SMTP. | Default: `false` |
| `TOWER_ENABLE_PLATFORMS`  | A comma-separated list of execution backends to enable. **At least one is required.** | `altair-platform,awsbatch-platform,azbatch-platform,eks-platform,googlebatch-platform,gke-platform,k8s-platform,local-platform,lsf-platform,moab-platform,slurm-platform` |
| `TOWER_ENABLE_UNSAFE_MODE` | Set to `true` to allow HTTP connections to Seqera. HTTP must not be used in production deployments. HTTPS is used by default from version 22.1.x. | Default: `false` |

## Configure Seqera to use AWS Parameter Store values

To enable Seqera use AWS Parameter Store values:

1. Grant [AWS Parameter Store permissions](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/systems-manager/latest/userguide/sysman-paramstore-access.html) to your Seqera host instance.
2. Add `TOWER_ENABLE_AWS_SSM=true` in the `tower.env` configuration file.
3. Create individual parameters in the AWS Parameter Store (see below).
4. Start your Seqera instance and confirm the following entries appear in the **backend** container log:

```bash
[main] - INFO  i.m.context.DefaultBeanContext - Reading bootstrap environment configuration
[main] - INFO  i.m.d.c.c.DistributedPropertySourceLocator - Resolved 2 configuration sources from client: compositeConfigurationClient(AWS Parameter Store)
```

## Create configuration values in AWS Parameter Store

Store Seqera configuration values as individual parameters in the AWS Parameter Store. Values must be namespaced to avoid collisions if multiple Seqera instances exist in the same AWS Account (e.g., Dev / Staging / Prod). Seqera uses `tower-app` by default, but this can be modified via the `tower.application.name` key in the `tower.yml` file.

We recommend storing sensitive values, such as database passwords, as SecureString-type parameters. These parameters require additional IAM KMS key permissions to be decrypted.

Seqera does not support StringList parameters. Configuration parameters with multiple values can be created as comma-separated lists of String type.

To create Seqera configuration parameters in AWS Parameter Store, do the following:

1. Navigate to the **Parameter Store** from the **AWS Systems Manager Service** console.
2. From the **My parameters** tab, select **Create parameter** and populate as follows:

| Field | Description |
| ----- | ----------- |
| **Name** | Use the format `/config/<application_name>/<cfg_path>`. `<cfg_path>` follows the `tower.yml` nesting hierarchy. See the [configuration overview](./overview.mdx) for specific paths.<br/>**Example: `/config/tower-app/mail.smtp.password : <your_smtp_password>`** |
| **Description** | (Optional) Description for the parameter. |
| **Tier** | Select **Standard**. |
| **Type** | Use **SecureString** for sensitive values like passwords and tokens. Use **String** for everything else. |
| **Data type** | Select **text**. |
| **Value** | Enter a plain text value (this is the configuration value used in Seqera). |

Commit message:

Update config files, add admonition about micronaut app name for SSM config

platform_versioned_docs/version-23.4.0/enterprise/configuration/aws_parameter_store.mdx, after:

---
title: "AWS Parameter Store"
description: Configure values for Seqera configuration with AWS Parameter Store
date: "21 Apr 2023"
tags: [configuration, aws, parameter, securestring]
---

From version 23.1, Seqera Platform Enterprise can fetch configuration values from the AWS Parameter Store.

:::caution
`TOWER_DB_USER`, `TOWER_DB_PASSWORD`, and `TOWER_DB_URL` values must be specified using **environment variables** during initial Seqera Enterprise deployment in a new environment. A new installation will fail if DB values are only defined in `tower.yml` or the AWS Parameter Store.

After the database has been created, these values can be added to AWS Parameter Store entries and removed from your environment variables.
:::

## Configuration values not supported in AWS Parameter Store

Due to the order of operations when deploying Seqera Enterprise, some configuration values can only be retrieved from **environment variables** (`tower.env`). The following configuration values are not supported by AWS Parameter Store and must be set as environment variables:

| Environment Variable      | Description                                                                                                     | Value                                                                                             |
| ------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `TOWER_DB_USER`           | The user account to access your database. If you are using an external database, you must create this user manually. **For installation in a new environment, this value must be set as an environment variable.** | Default: `tower` |
| `TOWER_DB_PASSWORD`       | The user password to access your database. If you are using an external database, you must create this password manually. **For installation in a new environment, this value must be set as an environment variable.** | Default: `tower` |
| `TOWER_DB_URL`            | The URL to access your database. **For installation in a new environment, this value must be set as an environment variable.** | Example: `jdbc:mysql://db:3306/tower` |
| `TOWER_APP_NAME`          | Application name. To run multiple instances of the same Seqera account, each instance must have a unique name, e.g., `tower-dev` and `tower-prod`. **Can also be set in `tower.yml` with `tower.appName`.** | Default: `tower` |
| `TOWER_ENABLE_AWS_SES`   | Set `true` to enable AWS Simple Email Service for sending Seqera emails instead of SMTP. | Default: `false` |
| `TOWER_ENABLE_PLATFORMS`  | A comma-separated list of execution backends to enable. **At least one is required.** | `altair-platform,awsbatch-platform,azbatch-platform,eks-platform,googlebatch-platform,gke-platform,k8s-platform,local-platform,lsf-platform,moab-platform,slurm-platform` |
| `TOWER_ENABLE_UNSAFE_MODE` | Set to `true` to allow HTTP connections to Seqera. HTTP must not be used in production deployments. HTTPS is used by default from version 22.1.x. | Default: `false` |

## Configure Seqera to use AWS Parameter Store values

To enable Seqera use AWS Parameter Store values:

1. Grant [AWS Parameter Store permissions](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/systems-manager/latest/userguide/sysman-paramstore-access.html) to your Seqera host instance.
2. Add `TOWER_ENABLE_AWS_SSM=true` in the `tower.env` configuration file.
3. Create individual parameters in the AWS Parameter Store (see below).
4. Start your Seqera instance and confirm the following entries appear in the **backend** container log:

```bash
[main] - INFO  i.m.context.DefaultBeanContext - Reading bootstrap environment configuration
[main] - INFO  i.m.d.c.c.DistributedPropertySourceLocator - Resolved 2 configuration sources from client: compositeConfigurationClient(AWS Parameter Store)
```

## Create configuration values in AWS Parameter Store

Store Seqera configuration values as individual parameters in the AWS Parameter Store.

:::caution
The default application name is `tower-app`. To deploy multiple instances from the same Seqera Enterprise account, set a custom application name for each instance with the `micronaut.application.name` value in your `tower.yml` configuration file.
:::

We recommend storing sensitive values, such as database passwords, as SecureString-type parameters. These parameters require additional IAM KMS key permissions to be decrypted.

Seqera does not support StringList parameters. Configuration parameters with multiple values can be created as comma-separated lists of String type.

To create Seqera configuration parameters in AWS Parameter Store, do the following:

1. Navigate to the **Parameter Store** from the **AWS Systems Manager Service** console.
2. From the **My parameters** tab, select **Create parameter** and populate as follows:

| Field | Description |
| ----- | ----------- |
| **Name** | Use the format `/config/<application_name>/<cfg_path>`. `<cfg_path>` follows the `tower.yml` nesting hierarchy. See the [configuration overview](./overview.mdx) for specific paths.<br/>**Example: `/config/tower-app/mail.smtp.password : <your_smtp_password>`** |
| **Description** | (Optional) Description for the parameter. |
| **Tier** | Select **Standard**. |
| **Type** | Use **SecureString** for sensitive values like passwords and tokens. Use **String** for everything else. |
| **Data type** | Select **text**. |
| **Value** | Enter a plain text value (this is the configuration value used in Seqera). |
