---
title: Seqera Enterprise v25.2
date: 2025-07-31
tags: [seqera enterprise]
---

Seqera Platform Enterprise version 25.2 introduces a series of enhancements designed to improve security, observability, and flexibility.

:::note
- Make a backup of your Platform database prior to upgrade.
- If you are upgrading from a version prior to 25.1, please complete all the intermediate version upgrades first before upgrading to 25.2.
- Ensure that no pipelines are in a running state during this upgrade as active run data may be lost. 
:::

### New features and improvements

#### Single instance cloud compute environments

Single instance compute environments create a single compute instance to execute Nextflow pipelines or run Studio sessions with a local executor. The new [AWS Cloud](https://docs.seqera.io/platform-enterprise/25.2/compute-envs/aws-cloud) and [Google Cloud](https://docs.seqera.io/platform-enterprise/25.2/compute-envs/google-cloud) compute environments are optimized for small to medium pipelines and Studios, enabling faster startup time, simplified configuration, and fewer cloud provider dependencies. To activate these, add `awscloud-platform` and `googlecloud-platform` to the `TOWER_ENABLE_PLATFORMS` environment variable.

#### Studios

##### Compute changes

- Studios now supports ARM64 and Spot instances for the new [AWS Cloud compute environments](https://docs.seqera.io/platform-enterprise/25.2/compute-envs/aws-cloud).
- Nested containerization is now supported for the new AWS Cloud Compute environments.
- New routing experience:
  - We have added a new optional routing experience for studio instances, this can be activated by setting the environment variable `TOWER_DATA_STUDIO_ENABLE_PATH_ROUTING=true` this allows the studios instance to use path vs domain based session routing removing the requirement for a wildcard SSL/TLS certificate 
- Studios now supports [path-based routing](https://docs.seqera.io/platform-enterprise/25.2/studios/overview#path-based-routingnon-wildcard-ssltls-certificates) to enable fixed domains for Studio sessions.
- You can now add per-session user-defined environment variables when creating a new Studio.
- We have added a [Docker-in-Docker](https://docs.seqera.io/platform-enterprise/25.2/studios/overview#docker-in-docker) configuration method to be able to run Nextflow in Studios using the AWS/GCP Cloud compute environments.

#### Data Explorer

- Platform CLI now supports file upload and download operations.
- You can now drag and drop multiple folders or files to upload them to your cloud bucket, or you can select **Upload**, then select multiple files to upload.
- We have added labels to display **read-only** and **public** buckets in Platform.

#### Platform interface changes

The [pipeline run details](https://docs.seqera.io/platform-enterprise/25.2/monitoring/run-details) page has been refreshed and includes improvements such as:
- Clear, dynamic view of pipeline execution in real time via a progress bar.
- A dedicated Run info tab with a centralized view of run metadata and status details.
- Improved navigation tabs for Tasks, Logs, Metrics, and Containers.
- The **Tasks** tab is now the default for successful runs.
- The Platform top navigation has been replaced with a sidebar for improved navigation. 

#### Fusion

- Added Fusion Snapshots (beta) support in AWS Batch compute environments, enabling Fusion to automatically restore jobs interrupted by AWS Spot instance reclamation. See [Fusion Snapshots](https://docs.seqera.io/fusion/guide/snapshots) for more information.
- Enabled Fusion licensing. A Fusion license sets a specific quota for Fusion use, measured by total pipeline throughput per month (defined by [Nextflow’s I/O metrics](https://www.nextflow.io/docs/latest/tutorials/metrics.html#i-o-usage). See the [Fusion licensing documentation](https://docs.seqera.io/fusion/licensing) for more information.
- Added a Platform Fusion usage dashboard.

#### Audit logs

- GxP compliance: Expanded [audit log events](https://docs.seqera.io/platform-enterprise/25.2/monitoring/audit-logs).
- Support for IPv6 addresses in audit log UI and API.
- Audit log API improvements:
  - Pagination improvements for enhanced performance. If you are using audit log admin API in your internal processes, please contact us to mitigate any breaking changes to your script. 
- Time range filtering support.

### General

- Bumped Nextflow launcher to 25.04.x.
- Added Conda helper text to the Conda packages field in **Add new Studio > General config**.
- Added `AuditLog` for dataset operations.
- [Added support for providing launch form values through URL query parameters during pipeline launch](https://docs.seqera.io/platform-enterprise/25.2/launch/launchpad#populate-launch-form-with-url-query-parameters).
- Added support for markdown rendering for Nextflow object field `help_text` and `description` properties.
- Added **Aborted** task counts to run details.
- Pipeline revision form field formatting in Platform interface.
- Improved pipeline schema validation error messaging in launch form.
- Upgraded Azure Batch Ubuntu image version to 22.04.
- Upgraded AWS SDK dependencies to v2.
- Added support for `array` type parameters in the Launch form.
- Implemented support for multiple extension dataset parameters in the input form.
- Renamed **Pipeline work directory** to **Work directory** in compute environment forms.
- Updated on hover copy for **Metrics** tab data widgets.
- Added a confirmation dialogue to prevent accidental termination of uploads and downloads by navigating away from Data Explorer.
- Datasets with the same name can be stored within the same organization.
- Added P5, P5e, P6-b200, I7i, C8gd, M8gd and R8gd EC2 families that support NVMe disk. Learn more on the [AWS What's New](https://aws.amazon.com/new/) page.
- Renamed `data_set_` prefixed events to `dataset_` for consistency with `Dataset` naming.
- Added indexes to improve performance on some potentially slow queries.
- Added OpenAPI tags to endpoints.
- Enabled revision control during fresh pipeline launch.

### Bug fixes

- Fixed a bug where pipeline secrets were not being deleted in the context of a personal workspace.
- Fixed missing notifications on tasks in **Submitted** state.
- Fixed content mime types causing overly restrictive dataset parameters.
- Fixed cost reporting metrics failing to render for runs launched with Nextflow CLI.
- Updated navigation bar link to Dashboard instead of Launchpad.
- Fixed empty state condition for containers in the task details screen when using a version of Nextflow that didn’t have containerMeta support.
- Added support for the `?` character in Data Explorer path and file names.
- Improvement to launch parameters handling after revision/config profiles are changed, and existing parameters are now completely overridden during a revision or config profile change.
- Fixed an issue where parameters were not updating on relaunch and removed/modified parameters were persisting.
- Improved error message handling for requests that have `RequestOptions.responseType` explicitly specified.
- Fixed discrepancy between **Wall time** and **total run duration**.
- Fixed an issue when editing a pipeline, the logo changed to the organization logo.
- Resolved Google VM propagate instance creation errors.

### General warnings

#### Removed `maxSpotattempts` setting from Platform.

This setting is now handled by Nextflow. See the [Nextflow reference documentation](https://www.nextflow.io/docs/latest/reference/config.html) for more information.

#### Legacy Seqera container image registry access ended June 1, 2025

You can no longer pull Seqera Enterprise container images from the legacy Seqera container registries (AWS ECR, GCP AR, Azure CR). All Seqera Enterprise images must be retrieved via the cr.seqera.io container registry. The installation and configuration templates provided for both Docker Compose and Kubernetes installations already reference the cr.seqera.io container image URLs. If you have not yet transitioned to this registry, contact Support to request credentials and for any further assistance.

See Legacy Seqera container image registries for more information on the deprecated Seqera AWS ECR registry.

### Upgrade steps

See [Upgrade deployment](https://docs.seqera.io/platform-enterprise/25.2/enterprise/upgrade) for installation guidance.
