platform-enterprise_versioned_docs/version-24.2/enterprise/prerequisites/gcp.mdx, before:

---
title: "Google Cloud"
description: Prerequisites for GCP deployments
date: "12 Apr 2023"
tags: [gcp, prerequisites, configuration]
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

This page describes the infrastructure and other prerequisites for deploying Seqera Platform Enterprise on Google Cloud Platform (GCP).

Run the Seqera container with [Docker](../docker-compose) on a GCP VM instance or with [Kubernetes](../kubernetes) on a Google Kubernetes Engine cluster. You must satisfy the requirements for your installation target:

- **SMTP server**: If you don't have an email server, Google Cloud provides several ways to send emails, such as [SendGrid][sendgrid], [Mailgun][mailgun], and [Mailjet][mailjet]. Work with your IT team to select the best solution for your organization.
- **MySQL database**: An external database such as [Google CloudSQL][gcloudsql] is highly recommended for production environments.
- **SSL certificate**: An SSL certificate is required for your Seqera instance to handle HTTPS traffic.

  :::caution
  HTTP-only implementations **must** set the `TOWER_ENABLE_UNSAFE_MODE=true` environment variable in the Seqera hosting infrastructure to enable user login. HTTP must not be used in production environments.
  :::

- **Public IP address**: (Optional) A public IP address can be reserved for the Seqera ingress to keep the IP address constant across restarts.

  <details>
    <summary>Reserve a public IP address</summary>

      1. Go to **VPC network > External IP addresses** and select **Reserve Static Address**.
      2. Assign a name (such as `tower-ip`). This name will be used later to configure the ingress.
      3. Select the region where your GKE cluster is deployed.
      4. Select **Reserve**.

  </details>

### Prerequisites for Docker

A [Google Compute Engine (GCE)][gce] instance is required to deploy Seqera Enterprise via Docker Compose. See [Google Compute Engine](#google-compute-engine) to provision a VM instance for this purpose.

### Prerequisites for GKE

A [Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE)][gke] cluster is required to deploy Seqera Enterprise via Kubernetes. See the [GKE documentation][gke-docs] to provision your own cluster.

:::note
Seqera doesn't currently support GKE Autopilot due to a privilege issue with the Redis deployment. However, you can achieve most of the same behavior with a Standard cluster by enabling autoscaling and node auto-provisioning.
:::

## GCP setup

This section provides step-by-step instructions for some commonly used GCP services for Seqera deployment. See the [GCP documentation][gcp-docs] for up-to-date instructions and contact [GCP support][gcp-support] if you have any issues with provisioning GCP resources.

### Google CloudSQL

Create a Google CloudSQL instance with the following attributes:
- MySQL 8.0
- At least **2 vCPUs**, **8 GB** memory, and **30 GB SSD** storage
- Private IP 

:::caution 
The recommended machine type and storage requirements depend on the number of parallel pipelines you expect to run. 
:::

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="GCP console" label="GCP console" default>

1. See [Create a MySQL instance][gcloudsql-create] for Cloud console instructions.
1. After the instance has been created, select the instance, then **Databases**. Create a new database named `tower`.
1. Note the Private IP address of the instance as it must be supplied to the `TOWER_DB_URL` environment variable.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="gcloud CLI" label="gcloud CLI" default>

See [Create a MySQL instance][gcloudsql-create] for gcloud CLI instructions.

1. Create your MySQL instance with the following command:
    ```bash 
    gcloud sql instances create INSTANCE_NAME \
    --database-version=MYSQL_8_0 \
    --cpu=2 \
    --memory=8GB \
    --storage-size=30GB \
    --region=us-central1
    ```
1. Note the private IP address as it must be supplied to the `TOWER_DB_URL` environment variable during Seqera configuration. 
1. Set the password for the root MySQL user:
    ```bash
    gcloud sql users set-password root \
    --host=% \
    --instance INSTANCE_NAME \
    --password PASSWORD
    ```
1. Create a database named `tower` on the instance: 
    ```bash 
    gcloud sql databases create tower \
    --instance=INSTANCE_NAME \
    ```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Google Compute Engine

Create a VM instance with these attributes:
- At least **2 vCPUs** and **8 GB** memory
- HTTP traffic enabled. By default, the frontend is exposed to port 8000, so you must add a firewall rule to the underlying VPC network to allow traffic on port 8000 after VM creation.
- SSH enabled (to allow connection to the VM). If you experience issues with SSH, or would like to set up IAP SSH, see [TCP forward to IAP][tcp-iap].

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="GCP console" label="GCP console" default>

See [Create a VM instance from a public image][gcp-vm-public] for Cloud console instructions. 

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="gcloud CLI" label="gcloud CLI" default>

1. Run `gcloud compute images list` to view a list of available public OS images. Note the name of the image you wish to use and the name of the project that contains it.
1. Create your VM with the following command (you can use either `--image` or `--image-family`, only one is required):
    ```gcloud
    gcloud compute instances create VM_NAME \
      [--image=IMAGE | --image-family=IMAGE_FAMILY] \
      --image-project=IMAGE_PROJECT
      --machine-type=MACHINE_TYPE
    ```
    Replace `VM_NAME`, `IMAGE`, `IMAGE_FAMILY`, `IMAGE_PROJECT`, and `MACHINE_TYPE` with your VM details.
1. Run `gcloud compute instances describe VM_NAME` to verify that Compute Engine created the VM. 

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

After you have created your VM instance:

1. Connect to the machine using SSH.
1. [Install Docker][install-docker].
1. Confirm that Docker Compose is installed:
    ```bash
    docker compose version
    Docker Compose version v2.24.1
    ```

## Seqera container images

Seqera Platform Enterprise is distributed as a collection of Docker containers available through the Seqera
container registry [`cr.seqera.io`](https://cr.seqera.io). Contact [support](https://support.seqera.io) to get your container access credentials. After you receive your credentials, retrieve the Seqera container images on your VM instance:

1. Retrieve the **username** and **password** you received from Seqera support.
1. Authenticate to the registry:
   ```bash
   docker login -u '/\<USERNAME\>/' -p '/\PASSWORD\>/' cr.seqera.io
   ```
1. Pull the Seqera container images:
   ```bash
   docker pull cr.seqera.io/private/nf-tower-enterprise/backend:v24.2.4

   docker pull cr.seqera.io/private/nf-tower-enterprise/frontend:v24.2.4
   ```

## Next steps 

See [Configuration](../configuration/overview).

[gce]: https://cloud.google.com/compute
[gcloudsql]: https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/mysql/quickstart
[gcloudsql-create]: https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/mysql/create-instance#create-2nd-gen
[gcp-docs]: https://cloud.google.com/docs
[gcp-support]: https://cloud.google.com/support-hub
[gcp-vm-public]: https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/instances/create-start-instance#publicimage
[gke]: https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine
[gke-docs]: https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs
[install-docker]: https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/debian/
[mailgun]: https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/tutorials/sending-mail/using-mailgun
[mailjet]: https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/tutorials/sending-mail/using-mailjet
[sendgrid]: https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/tutorials/sending-mail/using-sendgrid
[tcp-iap]: https://cloud.google.com/iap/docs/using-tcp-forwarding

Commit message:

Add Redis as requirement for GCP

platform-enterprise_versioned_docs/version-24.2/enterprise/prerequisites/gcp.mdx, after:

---
title: "Google Cloud"
description: Prerequisites for GCP deployments
date: "12 Apr 2023"
tags: [gcp, prerequisites, configuration]
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

This page describes the infrastructure and other prerequisites for deploying Seqera Platform Enterprise on Google Cloud Platform (GCP).

Run the Seqera container with [Docker](../docker-compose) on a GCP VM instance or with [Kubernetes](../kubernetes) on a Google Kubernetes Engine cluster. You must satisfy the requirements for your installation target:

- **SMTP server**: If you don't have an email server, Google Cloud provides several ways to send emails, such as [SendGrid][sendgrid], [Mailgun][mailgun], and [Mailjet][mailjet]. Work with your IT team to select the best solution for your organization.
- **MySQL database**: An external database such as [Google CloudSQL][gcloudsql] is highly recommended for production environments.
- **Redis-compatible cache**: An external Redis-compatible cache, such as [Google Memorystore] (https://cloud.google.com/memorystore/docs/redis/), is highly recommended for production deployments.
- **SSL certificate**: An SSL certificate is required for your Seqera instance to handle HTTPS traffic.

  :::caution
  HTTP-only implementations **must** set the `TOWER_ENABLE_UNSAFE_MODE=true` environment variable in the Seqera hosting infrastructure to enable user login. HTTP must not be used in production environments.
  :::

- **Public IP address**: (Optional) A public IP address can be reserved for the Seqera ingress to keep the IP address constant across restarts.

  <details>
    <summary>Reserve a public IP address</summary>

      1. Go to **VPC network > External IP addresses** and select **Reserve Static Address**.
      2. Assign a name (such as `tower-ip`). This name will be used later to configure the ingress.
      3. Select the region where your GKE cluster is deployed.
      4. Select **Reserve**.

  </details>

### Prerequisites for Docker

A [Google Compute Engine (GCE)][gce] instance is required to deploy Seqera Enterprise via Docker Compose. See [Google Compute Engine](#google-compute-engine) to provision a VM instance for this purpose.

### Prerequisites for GKE

A [Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE)][gke] cluster is required to deploy Seqera Enterprise via Kubernetes. See the [GKE documentation][gke-docs] to provision your own cluster.

:::note
Seqera doesn't currently support GKE Autopilot due to a privilege issue with the Redis deployment. However, you can achieve most of the same behavior with a Standard cluster by enabling autoscaling and node auto-provisioning.
:::

## GCP setup

This section provides step-by-step instructions for some commonly used GCP services for Seqera deployment. See the [GCP documentation][gcp-docs] for up-to-date instructions and contact [GCP support][gcp-support] if you have any issues with provisioning GCP resources.

### Google CloudSQL

Create a Google CloudSQL instance with the following attributes:
- MySQL 8.0
- At least **2 vCPUs**, **8 GB** memory, and **30 GB SSD** storage
- Private IP 

:::caution 
The recommended machine type and storage requirements depend on the number of parallel pipelines you expect to run. 
:::

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="GCP console" label="GCP console" default>

1. See [Create a MySQL instance][gcloudsql-create] for Cloud console instructions.
1. After the instance has been created, select the instance, then **Databases**. Create a new database named `tower`.
1. Note the Private IP address of the instance as it must be supplied to the `TOWER_DB_URL` environment variable.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="gcloud CLI" label="gcloud CLI" default>

See [Create a MySQL instance][gcloudsql-create] for gcloud CLI instructions.

1. Create your MySQL instance with the following command:
    ```bash 
    gcloud sql instances create INSTANCE_NAME \
    --database-version=MYSQL_8_0 \
    --cpu=2 \
    --memory=8GB \
    --storage-size=30GB \
    --region=us-central1
    ```
1. Note the private IP address as it must be supplied to the `TOWER_DB_URL` environment variable during Seqera configuration. 
1. Set the password for the root MySQL user:
    ```bash
    gcloud sql users set-password root \
    --host=% \
    --instance INSTANCE_NAME \
    --password PASSWORD
    ```
1. Create a database named `tower` on the instance: 
    ```bash 
    gcloud sql databases create tower \
    --instance=INSTANCE_NAME \
    ```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Google Compute Engine

Create a VM instance with these attributes:
- At least **2 vCPUs** and **8 GB** memory
- HTTP traffic enabled. By default, the frontend is exposed to port 8000, so you must add a firewall rule to the underlying VPC network to allow traffic on port 8000 after VM creation.
- SSH enabled (to allow connection to the VM). If you experience issues with SSH, or would like to set up IAP SSH, see [TCP forward to IAP][tcp-iap].

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="GCP console" label="GCP console" default>

See [Create a VM instance from a public image][gcp-vm-public] for Cloud console instructions. 

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="gcloud CLI" label="gcloud CLI" default>

1. Run `gcloud compute images list` to view a list of available public OS images. Note the name of the image you wish to use and the name of the project that contains it.
1. Create your VM with the following command (you can use either `--image` or `--image-family`, only one is required):
    ```gcloud
    gcloud compute instances create VM_NAME \
      [--image=IMAGE | --image-family=IMAGE_FAMILY] \
      --image-project=IMAGE_PROJECT
      --machine-type=MACHINE_TYPE
    ```
    Replace `VM_NAME`, `IMAGE`, `IMAGE_FAMILY`, `IMAGE_PROJECT`, and `MACHINE_TYPE` with your VM details.
1. Run `gcloud compute instances describe VM_NAME` to verify that Compute Engine created the VM. 

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

After you have created your VM instance:

1. Connect to the machine using SSH.
1. [Install Docker][install-docker].
1. Confirm that Docker Compose is installed:
    ```bash
    docker compose version
    Docker Compose version v2.24.1
    ```

## Seqera container images

Seqera Platform Enterprise is distributed as a collection of Docker containers available through the Seqera
container registry [`cr.seqera.io`](https://cr.seqera.io). Contact [support](https://support.seqera.io) to get your container access credentials. After you receive your credentials, retrieve the Seqera container images on your VM instance:

1. Retrieve the **username** and **password** you received from Seqera support.
1. Authenticate to the registry:
   ```bash
   docker login -u '/\<USERNAME\>/' -p '/\PASSWORD\>/' cr.seqera.io
   ```
1. Pull the Seqera container images:
   ```bash
   docker pull cr.seqera.io/private/nf-tower-enterprise/backend:v24.2.4

   docker pull cr.seqera.io/private/nf-tower-enterprise/frontend:v24.2.4
   ```

## Next steps 

See [Configuration](../configuration/overview).

[gce]: https://cloud.google.com/compute
[gcloudsql]: https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/mysql/quickstart
[gcloudsql-create]: https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/mysql/create-instance#create-2nd-gen
[gcp-docs]: https://cloud.google.com/docs
[gcp-support]: https://cloud.google.com/support-hub
[gcp-vm-public]: https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/instances/create-start-instance#publicimage
[gke]: https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine
[gke-docs]: https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs
[install-docker]: https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/debian/
[mailgun]: https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/tutorials/sending-mail/using-mailgun
[mailjet]: https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/tutorials/sending-mail/using-mailjet
[sendgrid]: https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/tutorials/sending-mail/using-sendgrid
[tcp-iap]: https://cloud.google.com/iap/docs/using-tcp-forwarding
